Enviromental Science^Climate Change: The Interface of Science and Public Policy Climate Change: The Interface of Science and Public Policy The possible impacts of climate changes enhanced by or following from human activities create challenges for planners, policy-makers, industrialists, and all citizens of the globe. This course seeks to examine the science of climate change and the policy issues that follow from that change.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Environmental Sciences Introduction to Environmental Sciences A survey of biological and physical environmental problems, focusing on geologic hazards, water and air quality, water supply, solid waste, introduced and endangered species, preservation of wetland ecosystems. Interaction of technical, social, and political approaches to environmental management.
Enviromental Science^Field Study in Environmental Sciences Field Study in Environmental Sciences Field and laboratory studies of Strawberry Creek throughout its course from the hills to the Bay are used to exemplify integration of the physical, biological, and social components of science-based approaches to environmental management.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to the Methods of Environmental Science Introduction to the Methods of Environmental Science Introduction to basic methods used in environmental research by biological, physical, and social scientists. The course is designed to teach skills necessary for majors to conduct independent thesis research in the required senior seminar, 196A-196B/196L. Topics include development of research questions, sampling methods, experimental design, statistical analysis, scientific writing and graphics, and introductions to special techniques for characterizing environmental conditions and features. This
Enviromental Science^Environments of the San Francisco Bay Area Environments of the San Francisco Bay Area The weather and climate, plants and animals, geology, landforms, and soils of the Bay Area, with an emphasis on the interaction of these physical elements, their modification by humans, and problems deriving from human use.
Statistics^Preparatory Statistics Preparatory Statistics This course assists entering Freshman students with basic statistical concepts and problem solving. Designed for students who do not meet the prerequisites for 2. Offered through the Student Learning Center.
Statistics^Introduction to Statistics Introduction to Statistics Population and variables. Standard measures of location, spread and association. Normal approximation. Regression. Probability and sampling. Binomial distribution. Interval estimation. Some standard significance tests.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Statistics Introduction to Probability and Statistics For students with mathematical background who wish to acquire basic concepts. Relative frequencies, discrete probability, random variables, expectation. Testing hypotheses. Estimation. Illustrations from various fields.
Statistics^Introductory Probability and Statistics for Business Introductory Probability and Statistics for Business Descriptive statistics, probability models and related concepts, sample surveys, estimates, confidence intervals, tests of significance, controlled experiments vs. observational studies, correlation and regression.
Statistics^Introductory Probability and Statistics for Business Introductory Probability and Statistics for Business Reasoning and fallacies, descriptive statistics, probability models and related concepts, combinatorics, sample surveys, estimates, confidence intervals, tests of significance, controlled experiments vs. observational studies, correlation and regression.
Statistics^Societal Risks and the Law Societal Risks and the Law Defining, perceiving, quantifying and measuring risk; identifying risks and estimating their importance; determining whether laws and regulations can protect us from these risks; examining how well existing laws work and how they could be improved; evaluting costs and benefits. Applications may vary by term. This course cannot be used to complete engineering unit or technical elective requirements for students in the College of Engineering.
Statistics^Field Study in Statistics Field Study in Statistics Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of statistics in off-campus settings. Individual and/or group meetings with faculty.
Statistics^Introduction to the SAS System for Data Analysis Introduction to the SAS System for Data Analysis The SAS system is useful for reading input data from a variety of sources and then performing a wide range of analyses and graphical displays with the data. Topics include accessing SAS on a variety of computer platforms; inputting raw data; managing SAS data sets; programming in SAS and in the SAS macro language. Emphasis on large data sets. Students are encouraged to bring in their own data. Students should have used at least one program, such as a word processor.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Life Scientists Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Life Scientists Ideas for estimation and hypothesis testing basic to applications, including an introduction to probability. Linear estimation and normal regression theory.
Statistics^Practical Machine Learning Practical Machine Learning Machine learning is a collection of topics in which the focus is on large-scale statistical problems where computational issues are paramount. The goal is often one of prediction or classification, where based on a set of labeled data it is desired to predict the lablels of unlabeled data. Machine learning algorithms also often focus on exploratory data analysis. This course will introduce core statistical machine learning algorithms in a non-mathematical way, emphasizing applied problem-solving.
Statistics^Concepts in Computing with Data Concepts in Computing with Data An introduction to computationally intensive applied statistics. Topics will include organization and use of databases, visualization and graphics, statistical learning and data mining, model validation procedures, and the presentation of results.
Statistics^Concepts of Probability Concepts of Probability An introduction to probability, emphasizing concepts and applications. Conditional expectation, independence, laws of large numbers. Discrete and continuous random variables. Central limit theorem. Selected topics such as the Poisson process, Markov chains, characteristic functions.
Statistics^Concepts of Statistics Concepts of Statistics A comprehensive survey course in statistical theory and methodology. Topics include descriptive statistics, maximum likelihood estimation, non-parametric methods, introduction to optimality, goodness-of-fit tests, analysis of variance, bootstrap and computer-intensive methods and least squares estimation. The laboratory includes computer-based data-analytic applications to science and engineering.
Statistics^Stochastic Processes Stochastic Processes Random walks, discrete time Markov chains, Poisson processes. Further topics such as: continuous time Markov chains, queueing theory, point processes, branching processes, renewal theory, stationary processes, Gaussian processes.
Statistics^Linear Modelling: Theory and Applications Linear Modelling: Theory and Applications A coordinated treatment of linear and generalized linear models and their application. Linear regression, analysis of variance and covariance, random effects, design and analysis of experiments, quality improvement, log-linear models for discrete multivariate data, model selection, robustness, graphical techniques, productive use of computers, in-depth case studies.
Statistics^Linear Modelling: Theory and Applications Linear Modelling: Theory and Applications A coordinated treatment of linear and generalized linear models and their application. Linear regression, analysis of variance and covariance, random effects, design and analysis of experiments, quality improvement, log-linear models for discrete multivariate data, model selection, robustness, graphical techniques, productive use of computers, in-depth case studies.
Statistics^Sampling Surveys Sampling Surveys Theory and practice of sampling from finite populations. Simple random, stratified, cluster, and double sampling. Sampling with unequal probabilities. Properties of various estimators including ratio, regression, and difference estimators. Error estimation for complex samples.
Statistics^Introduction to Time Series Introduction to Time Series An introduction to time series analysis in the time domain and spectral domain. Topics will include: estimation of trends and seasonal effects, autoregressive moving average models, forecasting, indicators, harmonic analysis, spectra.
Statistics^Modern Statistical Prediction and Machine Learning Modern Statistical Prediction and Machine Learning Theory and practice of statistical prediction. Contemporary methods as extensions of classical methods. Topics: optimal prediction rules, the curse of dimensionality, empirical risk, linear regression and classification, basis expansions, regularization, splines, the bootstrap, model selection, classification and regression trees, boosting, support vector machines. Computational efficiency versus predictive performance. Emphasis on experience with real data and assessing statistical assumptions.
Statistics^Game Theory Game Theory General theory of zero-sum, two-person games, including games in extensive form and continuous games, and illustrated by detailed study of examples.
Statistics^Seminar on Topics in Probability and Statistics Seminar on Topics in Probability and Statistics Substantial student participation required. The topics to be covered each semester that the course may be offered will be announced by the middle of the preceding semester; see departmental bulletins. Recent topics include: Bayesian statistics, statistics and finance, random matrix theory, high-dimensional statistics.
Statistics^The Design and Analysis of Experiments The Design and Analysis of Experiments An introduction to the design and analysis of experiments. This course covers planning, conducting, and analyzing statistically designed experiments with an emphasis on hands-on experience. Standard designs studied include factorial designs, block designs, latin square designs, and repeated measures designs. Other topics covered include the principles of design, randomization, ANOVA, response surface methodoloy, and computer experiments.
Statistics^Field Study in Statistics Field Study in Statistics Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of statistics in off-campus settings. Individual and/or group meetings with faculty.
Statistics^Directed Study for Undergraduates Directed Study for Undergraduates Special tutorial or seminar on selected topics.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Statistics at an Advanced Level Introduction to Probability and Statistics at an Advanced Level Probability spaces, random variables, distributions in probability and statistics, central limit theorem, Poisson processes, transformations involving random variables, estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, linear models, large sample theory, categorical models, decision theory.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Statistics at an Advanced Level Introduction to Probability and Statistics at an Advanced Level Probability spaces, random variables, distributions in probability and statistics, central limit theorem, Poisson processes, transformations involving random variables, estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, linear models, large sample theory, categorical models, decision theory.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability at an Advanced Level Introduction to Probability at an Advanced Level Distributions in probability and statistics, central limit theorem, Poisson processes, modes of convergence, transformations involving random variables.
Statistics^Introduction to Statistics at an Advanced Level Introduction to Statistics at an Advanced Level Estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, linear models, large sample theory, categorical models, decision theory.
Statistics^Probability for Applications Probability for Applications A treatment of ideas and techniques most commonly found in the applications of probability: Gaussian and Poisson processes, limit theorems, large deviation principles, information, Markov chains and Markov chain Monte Carlo, martingales, Brownian motion and diffusion.
Statistics^Probability Theory Probability Theory The course is designed as a sequence with Statistics C205B/Mathematics C218B with the following combined syllabus. Measure theory concepts needed for probability. Expection, distributions. Laws of large numbers and central limit theorems for independent random variables. Characteristic function methods. Conditional expectations, martingales and martingale convergence theorems. Markov chains. Stationary processes. Brownian motion.
Statistics^Probability Theory Probability Theory The course is designed as a sequence with with Statistics C205A/Mathematics C218A with the following combined syllabus. Measure theory concepts needed for probability. Expection, distributions. Laws of large numbers and central limit theorems for independent random variables. Characteristic function methods. Conditional expectations, martingales and martingale convergence theorems. Markov chains. Stationary processes. Brownian motion.
Statistics^Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Process Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Process The topics of this course change each semester, and multiple sections may be offered. Advanced topics in probability offered according to students demand and faculty availability.
Statistics^Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Processes Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Processes The topics of this course change each semester, and multiple sections may be offered. Advanced topics in probability offered according to students demand and faculty availability.
Statistics^Theoretical Statistics Theoretical Statistics An introduction to mathematical statistics, covering both frequentist and Bayesian aspects of modeling, inference, and decision-making. Topics include statistical decision theory; point estimation; minimax and admissibility; Bayesian methods; exponential families; hypothesis testing; confidence intervals; small and large sample theory; and M-estimation.
Statistics^Theoretical Statistics Theoretical Statistics Introduction to modern theory of statistics; empirical processes, influence functions, M-estimation, U and V statistics and associated stochastic decompositions; non-parametric function estimation and associated minimax theory; semiparametric models; Monte Carlo methods and bootstrap methods; distributionfree and equivariant procedures; topics in machine learning. Topics covered may vary with instructor.
Statistics^Topics in Theoretical Statistics Topics in Theoretical Statistics This course introduces the student to topics of current research interest in theoretical statistics. Recent topics include information theory, multivariate analysis and random matrix theory, high-dimensional inference. Typical topics have been model selection; empirical and point processes; the bootstrap, stochastic search, and Monte Carlo integration; information theory and statistics; semi- and non-parametric modeling; time series and survival analysis.
Statistics^Topics in Theoretical Statistics Topics in Theoretical Statistics This course introduces the student to topics of current research interest in theoretical statistics. Recent topics include information theory, multivariate analysis and random matrix theory, high-dimensional inference. Typical topics have been model selection; empirical and point processes; the bootstrap, stochastic search, and Monte Carlo integration; information theory and statistics; semi- and non-parametric modeling; time series and survival analysis.
Statistics^Statistical Models: Theory and Application Statistical Models: Theory and Application Applied statistics with a focus on critical thinking, reasoning skills, and techniques. Hands-on-experience with solving real data problems with high-level programming languages such as R. Emphasis on examining the assumptions behind standard statistical models and methods. Exploratory data analysis (e.g., graphical data summaries, PCAs, clustering analysis). Model formulation, fitting, and validation and testing. Linear regression and generalizations (e.g., GLMs, ridge regression, lasso).
Statistics^Statistical Models: Theory and Application Statistical Models: Theory and Application Course builds on 215A in developing critical thinking skills and the techniques of advanced applied statistics. Particular topics vary with instructor. Examples of possible topics include planning and design of experiments, ANOVA and random effects models, splines, classification, spatial statistics, categorical data analysis, survival analysis, and multivariate analysis.
Statistics^Masters of Statistics Capstone Project Masters of Statistics Capstone Project The capstone project is part of the masters degree program in statistics. Students engage in professionally-oriented group research under the supervision of a research advisor. The research synthesizes the statistical, computational, economic, and social issues involved in solving complex real-world problems.
Statistics^Linear Models Linear Models Theory of least squares estimation, interval estimation, and tests under the general linear fixed effects model with normally distributed errors. Large sample theory for non-normal linear models. Two and higher way layouts, residual analysis. Effects of departures from the underlying assumptions. Robust alternatives to least squares.
Statistics^Experimental Design Experimental Design Randomization, blocking, factorial design, confounding, fractional replication, response surface methodology, optimal design. Applications.
Statistics^The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Science The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Science Approaches to causal inference using the potential outcomes framework. Covers observational studies with and without ignorable treatment assignment, randomized experiments with and without noncompliance, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity, sensitivity analysis and randomization inference. Applications are drawn from a variety of fields including political science, economics, sociology, public health and medicine.
Statistics^Quantitative Methodology in the Social Sciences Seminar Quantitative Methodology in the Social Sciences Seminar A seminar on successful research designs and a forum for students to discuss the research methods needed in their own work, supplemented by lectures on relevant statistical and computational topics such as matching methods, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity, and Bayesian, maximum likelihood and robust estimation. Applications are drawn from political science, economics, sociology, and public health. Experience with R is assumed.
Statistics^The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Science The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Science Approaches to causal inference using the potential outcomes framework. Covers observational studies with and without ignorable treatment assignment, randomized experiments with and without noncompliance, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity, sensitivity analysis and randomization inference. Applications are drawn from a variety of fields including political science, economics, sociology, public health and medicine.
Statistics^Nonparametric and Robust Methods Nonparametric and Robust Methods Standard nonparametric tests and confidence intervals for continuous and categorical data; nonparametric estimation of quantiles; robust estimation of location and scale parameters. Efficiency comparison with the classical procedures.
Statistics^Statistical Learning Theory Statistical Learning Theory Classification regression, clustering, dimensionality, reduction, and density estimation. Mixture models, hierarchical models, factorial models, hidden Markov, and state space models, Markov properties, and recursive algorithms for general probabilistic inference nonparametric methods including decision trees, kernal methods, neural networks, and wavelets. Ensemble methods.
Statistics^Advanced Topics in Learning and Decision Making Advanced Topics in Learning and Decision Making Recent topics include: Graphical models and approximate inference algorithms. Markov chain Monte Carlo, mean field and probability propagation methods. Model selection and stochastic realization. Bayesian information theoretic and structural risk minimization approaches. Markov decision processes and partially observable Markov decision processes. Reinforcement learning.
Statistics^Introduction to Statistical Computing Introduction to Statistical Computing Concepts in statistical programming and statistical computation, including programming principles, data and text manipulation, parallel processing, simulation, numerical linear algebra, and optimization.
Statistics^Statistical Computing Statistical Computing Algorithms in statistical computing: random number generation, generating other distributions, random sampling and permutations. Matrix computations in linear models. Non-linear optimization with applications to statistical procedures. Other topics of current interest, such as issues of efficiency, and use of graphics.
Statistics^Introduction to Modern Biostatistical Theory and Practice Introduction to Modern Biostatistical Theory and Practice Course covers major topics in general statistical theory, with a focus on statistical methods in epidemiology. The course provides a broad theoretical framework for understanding the properties of commonly-used and more advanced methods. Emphasis is on estimation in nonparametric models in the context of contingency tables, regression (e.g., linear, logistic), density estimation and more. Topics include maximum likelihood and loss-based estimation, asymptotic linearity/normality, the delta method
Statistics^Biostatistical Methods: Survival Analysis and Causality Biostatistical Methods: Survival Analysis and Causality Analysis of survival time data using parametric and non-parametric models, hypothesis testing, and methods for analyzing censored (partially observed) data with covariates. Topics include marginal estimation of a survival function, estimation of a generalized multivariate linear regression model (allowing missing covariates and/or outcomes), estimation of a multiplicative intensity model (such as Cox proportional hazards model) and estimation of causal parameters assuming marginal structural models.
Statistics^Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine This course provides an introduction to computational statistics, with emphasis on statistical methods and software for addressing high-dimensional inference problems in biology and medicine. Topics include numerical and graphical data summaries, loss-based estimation (regression, classification, density estimation), smoothing, EM algorithm, Markov chain Monte-Carlo, clustering, multiple testing, resampling, hidden Markov models, in silico experiments.
Statistics^Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine II Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine II This course and Pb Hlth C240C/STAT C245C provide an introduction to computational statistics with emphasis on statistical methods and software for addressing high-dimensional inference problems that arise in current biological and medical research. The courses also discusses statistical computing resources, with emphasis on the R language and environment (www.r-project.org). Programming topics to be discussed include: data structures, functions, statistical models, graphical procedures, designing
Statistics^Statistical Genomics Statistical Genomics Genomics is one of the fundamental areas of research in the biological sciences and is rapidly becoming one of the most important application areas in statistics. This is the first course of a two-semester sequence, which provides an introduction to statistical and computational methods for the analysis of meiosis, population genetics, and genetic mapping. The second course is Statistics C245F/Public Health C240F. The courses are primarily intended for graduate students and advanced undergraduate
Statistics^Statistical Genomics Statistical Genomics Genomics is one of the fundamental areas of research in the biological sciences and is rapidly becoming one of the most important application areas in statistics. The first course in this two-semester sequence is Public Health C240E/Statistics C245E. This is the second course, which focuses on sequence analysis, phylogenetics, and high-throughput microarray and sequencing gene expression experiments. The courses are primarily intended for graduate students and advanced undergraduate students from
Statistics^Longitudinal Data Analysis Longitudinal Data Analysis The course covers the statistical issues surrounding estimation of effects using data on subjects followed through time. The course emphasizes a regression model approach and discusses disease incidence modeling and both continuous outcome data/linear models and longitudinal extensions to nonlinear models (e.g., logistic and Poisson). The primary focus is from the analysis side, but mathematical intuition behind the procedures will also be discussed. The statistical/mathematical material includes
Statistics^Analysis of Time Series Analysis of Time Series Frequency-based techniques of time series analysis, spectral theory, linear filters, estimation of spectra, estimation of transfer functions, design, system identification, vector-valued stationary processes, model building.
Statistics^Censored Longitudinal Data and Causality Censored Longitudinal Data and Causality This course examines optimal robust methods for statistical inference regarding causal and non-causal parameters based on longitudinal data in the presence of informative censoring and informative confounding of treatment. Models presented include multivariate regression models, multiplicative intensity models for counting processes, and causal models such as marginal structural models and structural nested models. Methods will be illustrated with data sets of practical interest and analyzed in
Statistics^Topics in Probability and Statistics Topics in Probability and Statistics Special topics in probability and statistics offered according to student demand and faculty availability.
Statistics^Quantitative/Statistical Research Methods in Social Sciences Quantitative/Statistical Research Methods in Social Sciences Selected topics in quantitative/statistical methods of research in the social sciences and particularly in sociology. Possible topics include: analysis of qualitative/categorical data; loglinear models and latent-structure analysis; the analysis of cross-classified data having ordered and unordered categories; measure, models, and graphical displays in the analysis of cross-classified data; correspondence analysis, association analysis, and related methods of data analysis.
Statistics^Statistical Consulting Statistical Consulting To be taken concurrently with service as a consultant in the department's drop-in consulting service. Participants will work on problems arising in the service and will discuss general ways of handling such problems. There will be working sessions with researchers in substantive fields and occasional lectures on consulting.
Statistics^Statistics Research Seminar Statistics Research Seminar Special topics, by means of lectures and informational conferences.
Statistics^Directed Study for Graduate Students Directed Study for Graduate Students Special tutorial or seminar on selected topics.
Statistics^Individual Study Leading to Higher Degrees Individual Study Leading to Higher Degrees Individual study
Statistics^Professional Preparation: Teaching of Probability and Statistics Professional Preparation: Teaching of Probability and Statistics Discussion, problem review and development, guidance of laboratory classes, course development, supervised practice teaching.
Statistics^Individual Study for Master's Candidates Individual Study for Master's Candidates Individual study in consultation with the graduate adviser, intended to provide an opportunity for qualified students to prepare themselves for the master's comprehensive examinations. Units may not be used to meet either unit or residence requirements for a master's degree.
Statistics^Individual Study for Doctoral Candidates Individual Study for Doctoral Candidates Individual study in consultation with the graduate adviser, intended to provide an opportunity for qualified students to prepare themselves for certain examinations required of candidates for the Ph.D. degree.
Theatre^Performance: Writing and Research Performance: Writing and Research Reading and composition in connection with the study of dramatic literature. R1A satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and R1B satisfies the second half.
Theatre^Performance: Writing and Research Performance: Writing and Research Reading and composition in connection with the study of dramatic literature. R1A satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and R1B satisfies the second half.
Theatre^Public Speaking and Presentation Skills Public Speaking and Presentation Skills Students will learn to present themselves and material clearly, confidently, and persuasively, using age-old arts of oral communication. They will learn techniques for overcoming stage fright, developing clear enunciation, finding and using their natural, unaffected vocal register, varying tone and intonation to hold audience interest, controlling pacing, moving with assurance and purpose, using appropriate gestures, and eye contact as well as exploring methods to change behaviors that bar effective
Theatre^Introduction to Acting Introduction to Acting This is a theory and performance course that provides an overview of the actor's creative process. Basic acting techniques are presented in conjunction with exercises, improvisation, and text work, designed to enhance concentration, imagination, vocal resonance, clarity of speech, self confidence, and communication skills.
Theatre^Introduction to Acting Introduction to Acting Instruction of elementary acting.
Theatre^Scene Study and Characterization Scene Study and Characterization In this course the emphasis of the students' studies shifts from the development of basic skills to the development of skills necessary to the character actor. Students develop characterizations which lie outside their personal experience by performing characters who are not close to themselves in age or background. Students continue to employ the basic acting and vocal techniques introduced in 10.
Theatre^Scene Study and Character Development Scene Study and Character Development Instruction in study of scenes and character development in dramatic productions.
Theatre^Speech and Vocal Communication Skills Speech and Vocal Communication Skills The study of the principles of speech and voice production. The course will focus on the interpretation and communication of both dramatic and non-dramatic material.
Theatre^Improvisation for Performance Improvisation for Performance This course will introduce students to the basic skills involved in creating characters, scenes, and stories for performance using only their bodies, voices, and imaginations. Attention will be paid to the challenges of creating and maintaining ensemble pieces as well as solo performances. Bridging the gap between these two modes of improvisation will be an overall focus on bringing students to a liberating yet critical appropriation of their own creativity. The course aims not only to prepare students
Theatre^The Drama of American Cultures: An Introduction to Our Theater The Drama of American Cultures: An Introduction to Our Theater This course provides an introduction to theater through the study of values and issues fundamental to cultural identity, the comparison of selected cultural groups and their relationship to American society as a whole, and the study of drama as an instrument for understanding and expressing cultural identity. Theater of specific cultural groups to be included will be determined by the availability of live theater productions offered on campus and in the Bay Area.
Theatre^Introduction to Performance Studies Introduction to Performance Studies This course introduces the critical terms and practices of the contemporary study of performance. Several key terms and important genres of artistic and social performance will be engaged; the course will draw critical and disciplinary methods from anthropology and ethnography, from the theory of dance and theater, from literary and cultural theory. Critical and theoretical concepts will be used to analyze a wide range of live and recorded performances, as well as performance texts.
Theatre^Introduction to Modern Dance Technique Introduction to Modern Dance Technique Introduction to modern dance from a Western concert dance perspective. Study of foundational concepts of movement such as: principles of alignment, locomotion, dance terminology, and musicality.
Theatre^Dance in American Cultures Dance in American Cultures Dance as a meaning-making expressive form. Develop the tools necessary for looking at dance, analyzing it, writing about it, and understanding its place in larger social, cultural, political structures. We will look at a variety of U.S. American dance genres, understanding them through their historical and cultural contexts, to explore how issues of race, gender, sexuality and class affect the practice and the reception of different dance forms, and how dance might help shape representations of
Theatre^Introduction to Technical Theater and Production Introduction to Technical Theater and Production A practical introduction to the terminology, theories, approaches, and techniques of technical theater and production. The course will cover theatrical terminology, stage equipment and architecture, production personnel and processes, and design departments, including scenery, properties, costumes, lighting, sound, and video. The course has a laboratory component. Based on student preference and availability, assignments for work on departmental productions will be made to one of two types of lab:
Theatre^Independent Study Independent Study Study of a topic not included in the regular department curriculum.
Theatre^Plays of Ibsen Plays of Ibsen Reading and discussion of Ibsen's major plays. Readings and discussion in English.
Theatre^Strindberg Strindberg Reading and discussion of Strindberg's major works; emphasis on his dramas and their significance. Readings and discussion in English.
Theatre^Speech and Vocal Communication Skills Speech and Vocal Communication Skills The objective of this course is to foster the finest sound of spoken English through work on basic vocal relaxation techniques, breath, resonance, articulation, and projection practice. The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA-narrow transcription) is used for purity and clarity of speech sounds. Also work on pitch, rate, quality, and inflection through a variety of material.
Theatre^International Performance and Literature: Irish Theater: Origins and the Contemporary Scene International Performance and Literature: Irish Theater: Origins and the Contemporary Scene This course will explore what is involved in the performer's art through class participation, writing, discussion, and final exam. It includes lectures on classical and contemporary theater, acting training, literature study, and attendance at many professional theater performances. Enrollment is open to all applicants without audition, and the performance aspects of the class will be responsive to the skill level of the students who enroll.
Theatre^Performance Workshop Performance Workshop Workshop involving advanced actors, dancers, and spoken-word performers in collaborative development of new performance; topics include cross-disciplinary arts, solo performance, language, and movement.
Theatre^Advanced Acting: Company Class Advanced Acting: Company Class Intensive group study, rehearsal, and performance of a play or selected dramatic pieces.
Theatre^Performance, Television, and Social Media Performance, Television, and Social Media This course examines the intersections of performance and media--specifically the media forms of television and social media in the U.S.--with a focus on how various types of difference (race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and socioeconomic class) are enacted, articulated, represented, and played on TV and social media platforms.
Theatre^Performance Theory Performance Theory An examination of a theoretical topic or perspective on performance, with specific attention to the interface between theoretical endeavor and dramatic, nondramatic, and nontheatrical modes of performance; may involve visiting artists. Topics vary from semester to semester.
Theatre^Performance and Culture Performance and Culture An examination of performance as an aspect of cultural production, ranging from everyday-life enactment to more formal or aesthetic activities associated with "artistic" production; may involve visiting artists. Specific attention to the methods of ethnography, cultural studies, and intercultural performance analysis. Topics vary from semester to semester.
Theatre^African Theater and Performance African Theater and Performance African performance includes a wide range of vibrant forms: from scripted drama, theatre, dance, and music to oral traditions, storytelling, masquerading, and ritual. Using source materials that are neither "traditional" nor "modern," "African" nor "European," but a complex amalgamation of influences, African performances defy these limited but nevertheless tenacious dichotomies. In the performing arts, one sees the resilience and tenacity of African cultural
Theatre^Performance and History Performance and History An examination of the historical conditions of performance, either given in a historical period or comparatively, with specific attention to the relationship between methods of historical studies and performance; may involve visiting artists. Topics vary from semester to semester.
Theatre^Performance Literatures Performance Literatures An examination of the formal, ideological, and cultural dynamics of drama, with specific attention to the relationship between methods of literary studies and performance; may involve visiting artists. Topics vary from semester to semester.
Theatre^Contemporary African American Drama Contemporary African American Drama Survey of contemporary plays by African American writers and the portrayal of the black experience in American theatre. Emphasis on predominant themes, structural tendencies, socio-historical context.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Playwriting Fundamentals of Playwriting A practical course for beginning playwrights. Through lecture, exercises, in class readings and group discussion, the class will explore the practical craft elements of playwriting along with the function of personal voice in one’s work. Students will write one short and one longer form play during the semester.
Theatre^Playwriting Playwriting This course will focus on the writing of a full-length theatrical work. A more critical analysis of the playwriting process with particular emphasis on how a playwright’s aesthetic and intellectual point of view inform the work. Instructor approval is a requirement for the course.
Theatre^Intermediate Modern Dance Technique Intermediate Modern Dance Technique Development of body articulation and control utilizing modern dance concepts of time, space, and dynamics.
Theatre^Intermediate Modern Dance Intermediate Modern Dance Modern dance technique. The class will concentrate on physical coordination, rhythmic and spatial exploration.
Theatre^Advanced Modern Dance Technique Advanced Modern Dance Technique Refinement of movement techniques as well as qualitative analysis and demonstration of movement with regard to rhythm, dynamics, and style.
Theatre^Advanced Modern Dance Technique Advanced Modern Dance Technique Refinement of movement techniques and qualitative analysis of movement with regard to rhythm, dynamics, and style.
Theatre^Practicum for Advanced Modern Dancers Practicum for Advanced Modern Dancers Practical application of previously studied theory and techniques of modern dance with an emphasis on development of individual movement style.
Theatre^Sources of Movement Sources of Movement Beginning application of dance technique as a means of communication in the theatre. Use of basic technical fundamentals as a means of extending natural movement in rhythm, energy, and space with emphasis on style and qualitative analysis.
Theatre^Music Resources for Performance Music Resources for Performance This course is an introduction to the sonic poetry of gesture. Studying historical Eurocentric precedents and current trends in theatrical/dance music, we will examine the work of composers for early royal theater like Rameau; move to the program of music of composers like Tchaikovsky; look at pre-electronic composers like Varese, Berio, and Stockhausen; shift into the avant-garde with Cage; and study contemporary composers like Anderson. Discussions will be based on lectures and readings. An important
Theatre^Choreography: Solo and Duet Forms Choreography: Solo and Duet Forms Analysis of theories of form and structure and their practical application in relation to content.
Theatre^Choreography: Group Forms Choreography: Group Forms Analysis of theories of form and structure and their practical application in relation to content.
Theatre^Beginning Ballet Technique Beginning Ballet Technique This course is designed for contemporary/modern dancers interested in learning ballet vocabulary, technique, and alignment principles in order to support their contemporary/modern training. The course is intended to be taken in conjunction with one of the modern/contemporary dance technique courses offered by TDPS (40, 141, or 142). Beginning level. Audition first day of class.
Theatre^Intermediate Ballet Technique Intermediate Ballet Technique This course is designed for contemporary/modern dancers interested in expanding their ballet vocabulary, improving ballet technique, and learning new approaches to taking ballet class. The course is intended to be taken in conjunction with one of the modern/contemporary dance technique courses offered by TDPS (40, 141, or 142) and requires that students have intermediate (or above) proficiency with ballet technique. Audition first day of class.
Theatre^Theater History Theater History A chronological survey of world theater to 1800, this course begins with an investigation of "performance behavior"--the human impulse to organize complex games, rituals, and other display activities. It explores the mythological and historical origins of theater in various cultures as well as the derivation of the first dramatic scripts. A heavy emphasis is placed on the analysis of the "promptbooks" and visual sources of early European and Asian theaters for a practical understanding
Theatre^Theater History Theater History A chronological survey of Western theater from 1800 to the present, this course begins with the dismantling of Neoclassical thought in the European theater and the rise of avant-garde and popular forms. Rapidly changing social conditions, cultural tastes, and technological advances in the 19th and 20th centuries are studied in tandem with the development of theatrical productions and movements, playmaking, and acting styles.
Theatre^Changing Forms in 20th-Century Dance Changing Forms in 20th-Century Dance A chronological study of a large selection of works by 20th-century ballet, modern, and postmodern choreographers. We emphasize how dance reflects and affects political climate, social values, religious beliefs, and cultural constructions of gender by examining a variety of dance themes, movement vocabularies, and styles.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Stage Directing Fundamentals of Stage Directing Beginning study of principles of stage composition, blocking, and analysis of dramatic texts for the director.
Theatre^Stage Directing Stage Directing Study of principles and practice of stage directing.
Theatre^Special Topics: Theater Arts Special Topics: Theater Arts Topics vary from semester to semester and have included The Power of Music and Poetry in the Theater; Modern Drama and Theater, 1940 to the Present; Theaters, Tricksters, and Cultural Exchange; Art as Social Action; and The Invisible World (Process Seminar).
Theatre^Technical Theater: Performance Practice Technical Theater: Performance Practice Participation in technical theater practice associated with department theater and dance productions to include technical run crew for live performance in one of: lighting, sound, video, properties, costumes, make-up, scenery, deck, and rail.
Theatre^Technical Theater: Shop Practice Technical Theater: Shop Practice Participation in technical theater practice associated with department theater and dance productions to include workshop activities (fabrication, treatment, and installation) in one or more of: costumes, hair, make-up, scenery, properties, lighting, video, and sound for live performance.
Theatre^Advanced Technical Theater Practice Advanced Technical Theater Practice Participation in advanced technical theater practice associated with department theater and dance productions to include lead, head, or coordinator position with technical run crew for live performance in one of: lighting, sound, video, properties, costumes, make-up, scenery, deck, rail, or advanced application of workshop activities (fabrication, treatment, and installation) in one or more of: costumes, hair, make-up, scenery, properties, lighting, video, and sound for live performance. Intended
Theatre^Theatre Laboratory Theatre Laboratory Non-performing participation in the University Theatre to include: Stage managements; crew assistance in lighting, sound, properties, costumes, make-up, backstage; technical assistance in scene or costume shop.
Theatre^Theatre Performance Theatre Performance Practice in acting and/or dance in Dramatic Art productions.
Theatre^Advanced Production Study Advanced Production Study Study of production techniques and procedures related to production management, stage management, and theater administration.
Theatre^Scenography: Lighting Design for the Theatre Scenography: Lighting Design for the Theatre An introduction to theatrical lighting, including practical application through Dramatic Art productions.
Theatre^Scenography: Lighting Design for the Theatre Scenography: Lighting Design for the Theatre An introduction to theatrical lighting, including practical application through Dramatic Art productions.
Theatre^Applied Theatrical Design Applied Theatrical Design Students of set, costume, and lighting design are provided experience, structure, and support in the practical application of design to the stage in departmental productions. Interaction and team approach of the designers will be promoted from the earliest stages of conceptualization through the opening night and the run of the production(s).
Theatre^Sound Design and Media Theater Sound Design and Media Theater In this course, undergraduate students will learn to construct sound cues and soundtracks for theater performances and videos using industry standard software, and will learn fundamental principles of incorporating video and sound into stage productions. Students will be exposed to the writings and works of prominent sound theorists, designers, and engineers and multimedia performance artists. The most successful students may be invited to participate in UC Berkeley theater productions as sound
Theatre^Video Production for Performance Video Production for Performance Video Production for Performance is a workshop class in which students will explore a broad range of video applications to performance. Through a series of exercise video shoots students learn the fundamentals of video production, including basic optics, camera angles and movement, sound recording, and editing. With an additional emphasis on concept and planning, students prepare for and execute a sustained video project—a detailed documentation of a staged performance, the development of a video
Theatre^Supervised Theatrical Design Supervised Theatrical Design Students are trained in the working methods of set or costume design; supervised preparation and implementation of designs in the department's production season, from initial discussions through opening night.
Theatre^Theatrical Realization of Dance Theatrical Realization of Dance This course relates choreography to theatrical presentation. Laboratory hours are spent in attendance at rehearsal, coaching sessions, and the performance of the dance concert. The course is taught by faculty choreographing the major dance production in the departmental season.
Theatre^Theatrical Realization of Dramatic Texts Theatrical Realization of Dramatic Texts This course relates dramatic texts or choreography to theatrical presentation. The lectures are based on the analysis of the work being presented. Laboratory hours are spent in attendance at rehearsal, coaching sessions, and the performance of the play or concert. The course will be taught by faculty involved in the major productions.
Theatre^Summer Theatre Laboratory and Performance Summer Theatre Laboratory and Performance Supervised instruction and labs to be arranged, variable 1-3 units. Supervised participation in summer stock season in one or more of the following capacities: acting, dancing, design, directing, choreography, stage management, backstage/scene shop and costume shop work, crew assistance in lighting, sound, properties, costumes, or make-up. Students should enroll in course in accordance with Summer Session deadlines, all casting and technical assignments will be arranged on the first day of class.
Theatre^Performance: An African American Perspective Performance: An African American Perspective Introduction to the Research-to Performance Method, African American aesthetics and dramatic performance techniques. Course will survey wide range of writings on performance and investigate applications through exercises and improvisations. Students will also assist in information gathering for works in progress.
Theatre^Research-to-Performance Laboratory Research-to-Performance Laboratory Development of scholarly material for theatrical presentation and enhancement of dramatic performance techniques through discussions, improvisations and readings of work conceived by the class and/or writers in other African American Studies courses. All source material will be based on the research of scholars in the field of African American Studies.
Theatre^Black Theatre Workshop Black Theatre Workshop Study and production of a play by an African American writer. The play will be studied within its social and historical context. Students will be introduced to the various aspects of theatre production.
Theatre^Honors Course Honors Course Independent study and conferences with faculty sponsor leading to preparation of a major research paper on a single aspect of theater, dance, or performance studies. May include a performance component.
Theatre^Honors Course Honors Course Development of subject studied in H195A, either as a bachelor's thesis or a laboratory project in acting, directing, playwriting, design, or dance.
Theatre^University Theatre Workshop University Theatre Workshop Individual directorial projects for advanced undergraduates. Research, tryout, callbacks, and rehearsals which result in performing for the public will average 20 hours per week.
Theatre^Field Studies in Technical Theatre Field Studies in Technical Theatre Supervised experience, in connection with theatrical production in field of: scenic construction; costume construction and conservation; theatrical lighting; stage management; publicity; theatre management; production management.
Theatre^Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Supervised group study of special topics, subject to approval by the chair.
Theatre^Introductory Colloquium on Interdisciplinary Research in Performance Introductory Colloquium on Interdisciplinary Research in Performance This course is designed to introduce graduate students to the research resources of the University, to the methodologies and research interests of the faculty affiliated with the Ph.D. program, to the demands of a professional academic career, and to trends and developments in theater, dance, and performance studies.
Theatre^Research Colloquium Research Colloquium This course is designed to provide an opportunity for graduate students to work with one another to advance their individual research projects and present their ongoing work.
Theatre^Performance Theory Performance Theory This core seminar for graduate students focuses on key issues in the theory of performance, with an emphasis on contemporary theoretical inquiry. Topics can include issues of representation and identity, presence, community, social efficacy, space, corporeality, audience, and transnational flows.
Theatre^Methodologies in Performance Studies Methodologies in Performance Studies The study of different approaches and contemporary methodologies for analyzing performances of various kinds within their cultural and historical context. Specific methodologies can include archival research, field methods, etc. The specific focus in any one course is contingent upon the focus of the instructor.
Theatre^Performance Practicum: Lab Run Performance Practicum: Lab Run This course is constructed around the making of performance, culminating in Lab Run, an event created, directed, and/or performed by graduate students. Lab Run will receive public performances near the end of the semester. The course is also conceived as a forum for exploring the relationship between live performance and the critical discourses of performance studies.
Theatre^Special Topics: Theater Arts Special Topics: Theater Arts Topics vary from semester to semester and have included The Power of Music and Poetry in the Theater; Modern Drama and Theater, 1940 to the Present; Theaters, Tricksters, and Cultural Exchange; Art as Social Action; and The Invisible World (Process Seminar).
Theatre^Special Studies in Directing Special Studies in Directing Advanced practice in play direction.
Theatre^Directed Research Directed Research Meetings to be arranged, either individually or as a group to explore fields not covered in courses listed elsewhere in Dramatic Art's offerings. May be taken by students engaged in writing dissertations.
Theatre^Special Study Special Study May be taken when preparing prospectus, graduate portfolio, and/or oral presentation before qualifying oral examination. May not be substituted for available seminars.
Theatre^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching in Dramatic Art Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching in Dramatic Art Discussion, problem review and development, course development, supervised practice of teaching.
Law^Reading and Composition in Connection with the Law as a Social Institution Reading and Composition in Connection with the Law as a Social Institution This course is designed to fulfill the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement. Students will learn to identity an author's point of view and main arguments; evaluate an author's credibility and the merits of hs or her argument, write a unified essay with intro, thesis statement, transitions between paragraphs, a concluding paragraph and develop an argument about an issue related to the course.
Law^Reading and Composition in Connection with the Law as a Social Institution Reading and Composition in Connection with the Law as a Social Institution This course is designed to fulfill the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement. Students will develop their skills at critical reading, writing, and analysis, and will complete a series of essays culminating in a research paper relating to law, legal actors, and legal institutions. Emphasis will be placed on the process of writing, including developing research questions, constructing an argument, and revising for content and style.
Law^Foundations of Legal Studies Foundations of Legal Studies This is a liberal arts course designed to introduce students to the foundational frameworks and cross-disciplinary perspectives from humanities and social sciences that distinguish legal studies as a scholarly field. It provides a comparative and historical introduction to forms, ideas, institutions, and systems of law and sociological ordering. It highlights basic theoretical problems and scholarly methods for understanding questions of law and justice.
Law^Policing and Society Policing and Society This course examines the American social institution of policing with particular emphasis on urban law enforcement. It explores the social, economic, and cultural forces that pull policing in the direction of state legal authority and power as well as those that are a counter-weight to the concentration of policing powers in the state. Special attention is given to how policing shapes and is shaped by the urban landscape, legal to cultural.
Law^Theories of Law and Society Theories of Law and Society An historical examination of major interpretations of law, morals and social development, with special emphasis on the social thought of the 18th and 19th centuries and including the writings of Marx, Maine, Durkheim, Weber and other contemporary figures.
Law^Youth Justice and Culture Youth Justice and Culture This course challenges adult-centered representations of urban youth of different ethnicities, their problems, and the supposed solutions to those problems. It departs from the conceptualizations and methods used to study youth in mainstream criminology and developmental psychology. Attention is given to youth conflict, peer relations, identity building within and across ethnic groups, claims on territory, the salience of law and rights, and adaptations to adult authorities and practices.
Law^Theoretical Foundations of Criminal Law Theoretical Foundations of Criminal Law Criminal law raises fundamental theoretical issues that have occupied philosophers over the years. In this course we will discuss a selection of articles that bring to bear such a philosophical perspective on important aspects of criminal law. Topics include justification of punishment, foundations of blame and responsibility, substantive values protected by criminal law, significance of actual harm, liability of groups and other collectivities, and virtues and limits of the rule of law.
Law^Theories of Justice Theories of Justice Major perspectives in social and economic thought, e.g., natural law, natural right, laissez faire, "possessive individualism," contractualism, pluralism, and social equality as they affect contemporary discussion of "higher law," fairness, civic competence, and distributive justice.
Law^Aims and Limits of the Criminal Law Aims and Limits of the Criminal Law Analysis of the capacity of criminal law to fulfill its aims. What are the aims of criminal law? How are they assigned relative priority? What principles can be identified for evaluating the effort to control disapproved activities through criminal law?
Law^Legal Discourse 1500-1700 Legal Discourse 1500-1700 This course focuses on the history of legal thought and discourse from the late medieval period to the Enlightenment. Topics to be considered include the relationship between legal thought and intellectual developments and the relationship between political and constitutional developments and legal discourse. Although the emphasis is on England, there will be some consideration of differences between English and continental European legal thought.
Law^Philosophy and Law in Ancient Athens Philosophy and Law in Ancient Athens This is an introduction to important aspects of the philosophical and constitutional thought of classical Athens. We will pay particular attention to accounts of the origins of the Athenian legal system; criticisms and defenses of the democracy; arguments about the nature of justice, law, and legal obligation; and the context of the Athenian way of organizing trials, taxation, and administration. Readings from Aeschylus, Thucydides, Aristophanes, Plato, Lysias, Aristotle, and others.
Law^Immigration and Citizenship Immigration and Citizenship We often hear that America is a "nation of immigrants." This representation of the U.S. does not explain why some are presumed to belong and others are not. We will examine both historical and contemporary law of immigration and citizenship to see how law has shaped national identity and the identity of immigrant communities. In addition to scholarly texts, we will read and analyze excerpts of cases and the statute that governs immigration and citizenship, the Immigration and Nationality
Law^The Supreme Court and Public Policy The Supreme Court and Public Policy This course examines a number of leading U.S. Supreme Court decisions in terms of what policy alternatives were available to the Court and which ones it chose. Prospective costs and benefits of these alternatives and who will pay the costs and who gets the benefits of them are considered. Among the areas considered are economic development, government regulation of business, national security, freedom of speech and discrimination. Readings are solely of Supreme Court decisions.
Law^Comparative Perspectives on Norms and Legal Traditions Comparative Perspectives on Norms and Legal Traditions This course is an introduction to the comparative study of different legal cultures and traditions including common law, civil law, socialist law, and religious law. A section of the class will be dedicated to the comparison of the colonial and post-colonial legal process in Latin America and in Africa.
Law^Property and Liberty Property and Liberty This course will explore the relation between property law and limits of liberty in different cultures and at different times. The course will cover theories of property law, slavery, the clash between aboriginal and European ideas of property, gender roles and property rights, common property systems, zoning, regulatory takings, and property on the internet. Readings will include legal theorists, court cases, and historical case studies.
Law^Law and Economics I Law and Economics I The course will apply microeconomic theory analysis to legal rules and procedures. Emphasis will be given to the economic consequences of various sorts of liability rules, remedies for breach of contract and the allocation of property rights. The jurisprudential significance of the analysis will be discussed.
Law^The Law and Economics of Innovation The Law and Economics of Innovation We will discuss how the creation of knowledge, artistic, literary, and musical works are supported in a competitive economy especially in the digital age. We will discuss intellectual property, copyrights, trade secrets, trade marks, and geographic indications, in historical and institutional contexts. We will consider the problems of competition that arise in the digital economy, such as Google Books, the Microsoft antitrust cases, and search advertising.
Law^Law and Economics II Law and Economics II Law and Economics I is not a prerequisite for Law and Economics II. Students may take either or both courses. Government uses many mechanisms to influence the provision of goods and services. Economists and lawyers have developed a critique of these mechanisms which has prompted substantial reforms in recent years, e.g., deregulation in transportation. The course examines this critique.
Law^Law, Self, and Society Law, Self, and Society Contemporary moral and political philosophy has been increasingly interested in how conceptions of the self relate to various aspects of our social and political life. These issues have an important bearing on legal theory as well. Law is shaped by certain implicit assumptions about the nature of individuals and collectivities, while it also actively participates in forming the identities of persons and in structuring collective entities such as families, corporations, and municipalities. This course
Law^Law and Society in Asia Law and Society in Asia This course offers a comparative perspective on law and legal institutions. Looking comparatively helps shed light on our own system and question what is “normal” or “natural.” From what it means to be a lawyer to notions of what is “just” or “fair,” courts and dispute resolution outside the U.S. can be both very different and, at times, surprisingly familiar. After an overview of concepts and classic approaches to the study of law and society, the course will explore these differences and similarities
Law^International Human Rights International Human Rights This course considers how the practice of punishing crime can be understood in terms of the larger system of social life and cultural values in which punishment occurs. In exploring the social meanings of punishment, it examines some of the major historical changes in punishment that have been introduced in America and Europe since the 18th century.
Law^Government and the Family Government and the Family How has the law constructed and deconstructed "family" relationships? What are the common law, statutory, and constitutional principles that affect the formation, regulation, and dissolution of families? How do these principles, as well as diverse cultural and social values, guide the state in determining marriage, family, and child welfare policies?
Law^Bioethics and the Law Bioethics and the Law Law now plays a prominent role in medicine and science. Recent years have witnessed a major expansion of law's involvement. Law (statutory and court-made) articulates and interprets norms of conduct. This course will examine a number of topics where law and medicine intersect involving many of our most fundamental values including body, life, death, religion, reproduction, sexuality, and family. In each area, we will include both traditional issues, like "right to die" and more current
Law^Law and Development Law and Development Focusing on developing countries, this course considers the relationship between legal institutions and rules--including informal and traditional ones--and development--defined by different actors by economic growth, education, health, or a wide spectrum of freedoms. It examines efforts by national leaders, international organizations, foreign aid agencies, and NGOs to "reform" law to promote development, along with the resistance and unplanned consequences that often ensue.
Law^Punishment, Culture, and Society Punishment, Culture, and Society This course surveys the development of Western penal practices, institutions, and ideas (what David Garland calls "penality") from the eighteenth-century period to the present. Our primary focus will be on penal practices and discourses in the United States in the early 21st century. In particular we will examine the extraordinary growth of US penal sanctions in the last quarter century and the sources and consequences of what some have called "mass imprisonment."
Law^Law in Chinese Society Law in Chinese Society The course examines concepts that form the basis of the Chinese legal system, traditional theories and institutions of pre-1911 society, and the expression and rejection of the traditional concepts in the laws of the Nationalist period and the People's Republic.
Law^Restorative Justice Restorative Justice This course advances the claim that the criminal justice system is both a product and a powerful engine of racial hierarchy in American society, and that strategies of restorative justice, which have recently garnered attention in settings from prisons to middle schools, hold out promise as practices of racial justice. We explore this thesis by examining the ways in which criminal justice systems shape the emotions and social relations of victims, offenders, and members of the larger community.
Law^Adolescence, Crime and Juvenile Justice Adolescence, Crime and Juvenile Justice This course examines the premises, doctrine, and operational behavior of juvenile courts, particularly in relation to the commission of seriously anti-social acts by mid-adolescents. Topics include the history of theories of delinquency; the jurisprudence of delinquency; the incidence and severity of delinquency; police response to juvenile offenders; the processes of juvenile courts and youth corrections; and reforms or alternatives to the juvenile court system.
Law^Sex, Reproduction and the Law Sex, Reproduction and the Law This course examines recent American legal and social history with respect to reproductive and sexual behavior. We will consider two theoretical aspects of the problem: first, theories of how law regulates social behavior and second, more general theories about how reproduction is socially regulated. Armed with these theoretical perspectives, the course will then examine closely a number of legal/social conflicts, including sterilization, abortion and contraception.
Law^Crime and Criminal Justice Crime and Criminal Justice Introduction to the etiology of crime and criminal justice administration. What is crime? What are the main features and problems of the process by which suspected criminals are apprehended, tried, sentenced, punished? Past and current trends and policy issues will be discussed.
Law^European Legal History European Legal History Most contemporary legal systems derive from one or the other of the two legal orders that developed in continental Europe and England over the course of the centuries. This course introduces students to some of the main features of the continental European or civil law tradition, a tradition that has its origins in Roman law. We will look at the English common law tradition, which began to diverge from the law of continental Europe in the middle ages, and acquired its own distinctive character.
Law^Comparative Constitutional Law: The Case of Israel Comparative Constitutional Law: The Case of Israel This course will provide an introduction to constitutional law using Israel as a case study. Topics include: Constitutionalism and judicial review, state neutrality and self-determination, minority rights, state and religion, Human Rights Law, the concept of “defensive democracy" and ban of non-democratic political parties, legal aspects of the fight on terror, freedom of expression, equality and anti-discrimination, social rights, and constitutional limitations on privatization.
Law^Twentieth-Century American Legal and Constitutional History Twentieth-Century American Legal and Constitutional History Development of American law and the constitutional system in the 20th century. Topics include Progressive Era Regulatory policy, criminal justice and relations, freedom of speech and press, New Deal legal innovations, modern tort liability, environmental regulation, judicial reform, and federalism.
Law^Survey of American Legal and Constitutional History Survey of American Legal and Constitutional History Overview of American legal and constitutional history from colonial times to the present. Topics include colonial legal institutions, early constitutional history, history of the common law, business regulation, race and the law, history of the legal profession, and the modern constitutional order.
Law^Seminar on American Legal and Constitutional History Seminar on American Legal and Constitutional History This course will provide advanced reading and independent research in the history of American law. Preference may be given to students who have taken 177.
Law^Comparative Constitutional Law Comparative Constitutional Law An examination of constitutional decision-making in a number of countries based on selected high court opinions.
Law^Implicit Bias Implicit Bias Implicit bias, automatic or unconscious stereotyping, and prejudice that guides our perception of and behavior toward social groups, is a fast growing area of law and psychology. Students will look at research in substantive areas of employment discrimination, criminal law, and questions regarding communications, voting, health care, immigration, property, and whether research findings showing unconscious gender, racial, and other biases can be used as courtroom evidence to prove discrimination.
Law^Psychology and the Law Psychology and the Law This course will examine the implications of cognitive, social, and clinical psychology for legal theory, policies, and practices. The course will analyze the psychological aspects of intent, responsibility, deterrence, retribution, and morality. We will examine applications of psychology to evidence law (e.g. witness testimony, psychiatric diagnosis, and prediction), procedure (e.g. trial conduct, jury selection), and topics in criminal tort and family law.
Law^Law, Politics and Society Law, Politics and Society This course examines the theory and practice of legal institutions in performing several major functions of law: allocating authority, defining relationships, resolving conflict, adapting to social change, and fostering social solidarity. In doing so, it will assess the nature and limits of law as well as consider alternative perspectives on social control and social change.
Law^Psychology of Diversity and Discrimination in American Law Psychology of Diversity and Discrimination in American Law Course will examine concepts of race and culture, various understandings of and approaches to diversity found in the law, and the role of sociocultural structures in shaping the operation of antidiscrimination law and social policy. Topics include: psychology of desegregation, colorblindness and equal protection, affirmative action, stereotyping, sexism in the workplace, prejudice toward immigrants, social class and poverty.
Law^Sociology of Law Sociology of Law This course explores major issues and debates in the sociology of law. Topics include theoretical perspectives on the relationship between law and society, theories of why people obey (and disobey) the law, the relationship between law and social norms, the "law in action" in litigation and dispute resolution, the roles of lawyers, judges, and juries in the legal system and in society, and the role of law in social change. The course will examine these issues from an empirical perspective.
Law^Prison Prison Taking a broad interdisciplinary approach, this course embraces the longue duree of critical prison studies, questioning the shadows of normality that cloak mass incarceration both across the globe and, more particularly, in the contemporary United States. This course thus explores a series of visceral, unsettling juxtapositions: "freedom" and "slavery"; "citizenship" and "subjugation"; "marginalization" and "inclusion", in each case explicating
Law^Feminist Jurisprudence Feminist Jurisprudence This course will explore the ways in which feminist theory has shaped conceptions of the law, as well as examine a range of feminist legal theories, including equality, difference, dominance, intersectional, poststructural, postcolonial theories. It will ask how these theories have shaped legal interventions in areas including workplace/educational access, sexualized coercion, work/family conflict, "cultural" defenses, and globalized sweatshop labor.
Law^Seminar on Topics in Law and Society Seminar on Topics in Law and Society Advanced study in law and society with specific topics to be announced.
Law^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar This course provides Legal Studies honors students with the opportunity to learn about the conduct of legal studies research, how to write an honors thesis proposal, and prepare for writing an honors thesis in the spring.
Law^Honors Thesis Honors Thesis Study of an advanced topic under the supervision of a faculty member leading to the completion of a senior honors thesis.
German^Elementary German 1 Elementary German 1 All four foreign language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) are addressed to help students acquire communicative competence in the German language while being sensitized to the links between language and culture. This course is for students with no prior knowledge of German.
German^Accelerated Elementary German Accelerated Elementary German Students review and continue to develop the basic elements of communicative competence in both spoken and written language while being sensitized to the links between language and culture. This course covers the same material as 1 in a condensed way and at an accelerated speed. Upon completion of this course, students will qualify for enrollment in 2.
German^Elementary German for Graduate Students Elementary German for Graduate Students Elementary German for graduate students preparing for reading examinations.
German^Elementary German 2 Elementary German 2 In this course, students will continue to develop communicative competence in the German language and expand their sensitivity towards the relationship between language and culture. While all language skills will be addressed, additional emphasis will be on the various styles of written and spoken German.
German^Elementary German for Graduate Students Elementary German for Graduate Students Elementary German for graduates preparing for reading examinations.
German^Intermediate German I Intermediate German I While continuing to expand students' communicative competence in German, this content-driven course will provide insights into postwar German history and cultural trends. Primary focus will be on the development of literacy skills (critical reading and writing), vocabulary expansion, and a thorough review of structural concepts. You will be guided towards expressing yourself on more abstract topics, such as language and power in society, multiculturalism, rebellion and protest, and social justice
German^Intermediate German II Intermediate German II In this fourth-semester German language course you will work on strengthening your interpretative abilities as well as your written and oral forms of expression. While continuing the development of communicative competence and literacy skills, students will discuss a variety of texts and filsm and try to find innovative ways in which to engage with familiar presuppositions about who we are, about what determines our values and actions, and about the function and power of language.
German^Reading and Composition Reading and Composition This course offers a survey of modern German literary, cultural, and intellectual currents, as well as an introduction to argumentation and analysis. Students will examine numerous issues and questions central to defining the complexity of modern German culture. R5A satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and R5B satisfies the second half.
German^Reading and Composition Reading and Composition This course offers a survey of modern German literary, cultural, and intellectual currents, as well as an introduction to argumentation and analysis. Students will examine numerous issues and questions central to defining the complexity of modern German culture. R5A satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and R5B satisfies the second half.
German^Elementary German Intensive Workshop in Berlin Elementary German Intensive Workshop in Berlin This workshop combines the exhilaration of total immersion in a foreign language with a living experience in Germany's capital of Berlin, offering unique opportunities for students to learn about and absorb German language, history, culture, and a world perspective. Carrying 8 units, this intensive course is designed to give students the opportunity to complete the first year while being sensitized to the relationship between language and culture. Guided excursions and housing arrangements with
German^German Literature in a European Context German Literature in a European Context An introductory level exploration of a group of authors, works, themes, or literary movements from the history of German literature in a European context. Based on close readings of texts students will discuss ways in which literature has played (and continues to play) a crucial role in the relationship between different cultures, traditions, and languages. Readings and topics to vary from semester to semester.
German^Revolutionary Thinking: Marx, Nietzsche, Freud Revolutionary Thinking: Marx, Nietzsche, Freud We will explore the ways in which Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud--three of the most important thinkers in modern Western thought--can be read as responding to the Enlightenment and its notions of reason and progress. We will consider how each remakes a scientific understanding of truth, knowledge, and subjectivity, such that rationality, logic, and the powers of human cognition are shown to be distorted, limited, and subject to forces outside our individual control. All lectures and readings in English.
German^German Conversation German Conversation Advanced German conversation course that includes discussions, debates, individual presentations, and one or two in-class movies in German. Most materials will be provided by the instructor but students will also be asked to use their own resources from printed or online media. Regular vocabulary quizzes will be part of the course grade. Taught in German.
German^Exploring German Culture Exploring German Culture Students will explore historical and contemporary aspects of German culture through readings, discussions, guided excursions in Berlin and Weimar, and individual research projects. The course will engage students to develop a deeper understanding of the specific ways in which cultural issues are respected and reflected in the German language, which they study concurrently. Topics include multiculturalism and minority experience; Berlin as divided city and capital; city planning and public discourse
German^What is Beauty? What is Beauty? What or who decides whether something is beautiful or not? What purpose do beauty and art serve? Where do originality, genius, and inspiration come from? What do art and beauty have to do with freedom and human progress? We will examine primarily western European and North American approaches to beauty as presented in works of philosophy, literary theory, and theories of art and aesthetics, exploring key theoretical questions as they evolve among several intellectual arenas over many centuries.
German^Beauty and the Beholder: Approaching Art at the Berkeley Art Museum Beauty and the Beholder: Approaching Art at the Berkeley Art Museum This seminar-style course will take up a range of questions related to art works, aesthetic theory, the politics of art, and the relationship between artistic form and meaningful content by way of examinations of specific works at the UC Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive (BAM/PFA). Students will see how experts from several different disciplines approach works of art: What questions do scholars bring to an art work? What is a formal analysis vs. a critical interpretation of an art work?
German^Introduction to Reading Culture Introduction to Reading Culture The course is intended to acquaint students with selected works from German cultural history and to familiarize them with various methods of interpretation and analysis. Required of all German majors.
German^Advanced German: Conversation, Composition and Style Advanced German: Conversation, Composition and Style Focusing on five central themes, this advanced-level language course will help students to improve and expand on spoken and written language functions utilizing a variety of works from different genres in journalism, broadcasting, literature, fine arts, and the cinema. The final goal is to enable students to participate in the academic discourse--written and spoken--at a linguistic and stylistic level appropriate for an advanced student of German in upper division courses.
German^Advanced Language Practice: German Performance Advanced Language Practice: German Performance Analysis, discussion, adaptation, and public performance of authentic texts from German Kabarett, such as comedic skits, political and social satire, parody, humorous poetry. Text selection will vary each semester.
German^Advanced Language Practice: German for Business Advanced Language Practice: German for Business This advanced language/culture course focuses on the structure and practices of German business as well as current economic, political, and cultural issues relevant to conducting business in the German-speaking world. German-language news media, video, and Internet resources keep us abreast of contemporary developments in the business scenes of the German-speaking countries and the rest of Europe. Language skills practiced include business writing, presentations, and negotiation.
German^Advanced Language Practice: Popular Culture in Germany Advanced Language Practice: Popular Culture in Germany Focusing on popular culture in German speaking countries, this advanced level language course will help students to improve and expand on spoken and written language functions utilizing a variety of works from different genres in journalism, broadcasting, literature, fine arts, music, and the cinema. Readings, screenings, discussion, and writing assignments will advance students' language skills and further develop their communicative competencies in German at a linguistic and stylistic level appropriate
German^Introduction to German Linguistics Introduction to German Linguistics This course is designed to provide students with an overview of the major subfields of linguistics as they apply to the German language. It also serves as the gateway course for the further study of German linguistics at the undergraduate level. The first part of the course will focus on the synchronic description of contemporary German. The second part of the course will concern itself with variation in German. There are no prerequisties for this class and no prior experience with linguistics is
German^Senior Colloquium Senior Colloquium This course is intended for students who wish to improve their skills in reading, speaking, and writing German. We will work with texts that were particularly influential in Germany during the first decades of the 20th century, regardless of when they were written. Segments of philosophical writings (Schopenhauer, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, literary works (George, Rilke, Th. Mann) but also texts by scientists and journalists will be analyzed. Participants are expected to prepare several oral presentations
German^Middle High German for Undergraduates Middle High German for Undergraduates Students will learn the fundamentals of Middle High German grammar and will read selections from major narrative works of the High Middle Ages. Selections from major works from the 13th century.
German^Literacy through Literature Literacy through Literature Exploration of the role that literature can play in the acquisition of literacy in a first and second language. Linguistic and psycholinguistic issues: orality and literacy, discourse text, schema theory, and reading research. Literary issues: stylistics and critical reading, reader response, structure of narratives. Educational issues: the literary text in the social context of its production and reception by intended and non-intended readers.
German^German for Reading Knowledge German for Reading Knowledge This course is designed to prepare graduate students for translation/reading exams in German. Students who do not need to pass such an exam, but who wish to improve their reading and translation skills in academic German, are also welcome.
German^Literary Translation Literary Translation This course introduces students to the problems of literary translation from German to English.
German^Language and Power Language and Power Multidisciplinary explorations into the origins, nature, and exercise of language as social symbolic power, drawing on readings taken from anthropology, social and cultural theory, and critical discourse analysis. Topics include language and myth, the meaning of meaning, the economy of verbal exchanges, perspective and ideology in language, institutional discourse, gender and discourse, and linguistic imperialism.
German^The Literature of the Middle Ages The Literature of the Middle Ages Introduction in modern German or English translation to major literary monuments of the Hohenstaufen period. Intended for undergraduates with no knowledge of Middle High German.
German^Early Modern Literature Early Modern Literature Major texts from the 15th through the 17th century.
German^Western Mysticism: Religion, Art, and Literature Western Mysticism: Religion, Art, and Literature The course will focus on examples of mystical thought from the traditions of Christian and Jewish mysticism since the Middle Ages. In addition to the introduction of the students to basic texts and concepts we will discuss the effects of mystical thought on art and literature from the Middle Ages up to today.
German^From 1800 to the Present From 1800 to the Present The social, political, and historical background to German literature since the French Revolution.
German^Goethe Goethe An introduction to Goethe's prose, drama, and poetry.
German^Romanticism Romanticism Literature, philosophy, and aesthetics of the Romantic period.
German^German Drama and Opera German Drama and Opera This course introduces students to the masterpieces of German drama and opera from the eighteenth to the twentieth century.
German^Topics in Narrative Topics in Narrative Analysis of German narrative forms. Topic varies.
German^Eighteenth- to 21st-Century German Poetry Eighteenth- to 21st-Century German Poetry Representative texts from 18th- to 21st-century German poetry will be studied closely. Methodological questions regarding the interpretation of poetry in general will also be discussed.
German^Modern Literature Modern Literature Introduction to philosophical, ideological, and aesthetic trends at the turn of the century. Analyses of literary texts by Th. Mann, F. Kafka, S. George, R. M. Rilke, G. Benn, B. Brecht.
German^German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Luther, Kant, Hegel German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Luther, Kant, Hegel Introduction to the intellectual history of Germany from the age of the Reformation to the period of Idealism. We will focus on three major thinkers--Martin Luther, Immanuel Kant, and G.W.F. Hegel--on key issues in their thought, and on the reception and discussion of some of these issues in 20th century theory. Lectures and readings in English.
German^German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Marx, Nietzsche, Freud German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Marx, Nietzsche, Freud The aim of the course is to explore the central theoretical and philosophical premises of three of the most influential thinkers in the German-speaking world and to examine in detail several works in which problems of history, ideology, values, and methodology are considered. Lecture and readings in English.
German^German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Heidegger and Arendt German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Heidegger and Arendt This course is an introduction to the work of Martin Heidegger and Hannah Arendt. We will begin with an investigation into Heidegger's conceptualiztions of language, time, and human dwelling. We will then move to an examination of Arendt's political philosophy, including her focus on the public/private distinction. Taught in English.
German^German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Adorno, Benjamin, Habermas German Intellectual History in a European Context: Historical Figures and Contemporary Reflections: Adorno, Benjamin, Habermas This course examines the writings of the Frankfurt School of Critical Theory, a major branch of western Marxism. Focusing on confrontations with modernity, the lectures will deal with three seminal thinkers: Walter Benjamin, known for his genial insights into the culture of modernism; Theodor Adorno, the versatile philosopher and aesthetic theorist of the avant garde; and Jurgen Habermas, the most influential German intellectual after World War II.
German^Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: A Century of Extremes Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: A Century of Extremes The story of Germany in the 20th century is a dramatic one, comprising two world wars, genocide, Allied occupation, a division into two states on opposing sides of the Cold War, and recently an unexpected unification. This course offers an introduction to the history and culture of contemporary Germany. It aims at a systematic account of German history in the 20th century, and it intends to provide a better understanding of today's German culture and politics. In addition to following a chronological
German^Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: Facism and Propaganda Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: Facism and Propaganda This course will focus on the theory and practice of propaganda during the 12 years of the Third Reich. It takes a close look at the ideology the Nazis tried to transmit, the techniques, organization, and effectiveness of their propaganda. Challenging the idea of the total power of propaganda, it looks for the limits of persuasion and possible other reasons for which Germans might have decided to follow Hitler. Sources will include the press, radio, film, photography, political posters, and a few
German^Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: A Divided Nation. Politics and Culture in Germany 1945-1990 Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: A Divided Nation. Politics and Culture in Germany 1945-1990 This course offers an introduction to the history and culture of divided Germany in the era of the Cold War. It will look at the different ways the two states dealt with the country's pre-1945 history, the relations to the Allied Powers, and the major cultural shifts which eventually created a watershed in the history of German mentalities. We will look at various kinds of sources, including literature and film. Major national debates will be touched upon, such as breaks and continuities within
German^Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: Multicultural Germany Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: Multicultural Germany This course will deal with the culture and politics of minorities in contemporary Germany. We will discuss how ethnic identities are perceived, constructed, and marketed. We also engage critically with such concepts as migration, assimilation, citizenship, diaspora, hybridity, and authenticity, as well as rhetorical strategies of "speaking back." We will focus on exemplary texts and films from Germany, but include comparisons with minority experiences in other countries.
German^Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: The Weimar Republic: Politics and Culture in Germany 1918-1933 Politics and Culture in 20th-Century Germany: The Weimar Republic: Politics and Culture in Germany 1918-1933 The history of Germany's first parliamentary democracy is a dramatic one, dominated by economic woes, political violence, and a general perception of crisis and decline. The ill-fated republic bore the burden of a devastating war and suffered from an increasing lack of popular support. Democratic procedures were constantly undermined by radical and reactionary forces. Cultural pessimism was nurtured by the overwhelming experience of historical contingency, i.e., a fundamental lack of confidence
German^European Cultures European Cultures This course reflects on European cultures from a transnational perspective. It will explore tensions between traditional identity concepts based on the nation state model and other ways to define identity based on border crossings and intercultural connections. Special attention will be paid to Europe's multilingualism and its colonial legacy in the form of migration, diaspora, hybridity, and other social phenomena that challenge traditional boarders between cultures, languages, and people. We will
German^History of the German Language History of the German Language Designed for undergraduate and graduate students interested in the history of the language of the newly united Germanys, which transverses a rich linguistic legacy from the , through Luther and Grimm, to Grass and . Discussion, via linguistic principles, of language processes in the genetic development of the German language, as well as its interchange over time with closely and remotely related languages such as English and Russian.
German^German Dialects German Dialects This course examines geographical and social variation within the German language. Among other things we will consider the differences between language and dialect, the division of German dialects and the history of German dialect study, various linguistic features (phonological, morphological, syntactic, and lexical) characteristic of the major German dialect areas, and issues involving the use of dialect versus standard language in contemporary society. Besides regular readings and written assignments
German^The Phonetics and Phonology of Modern German The Phonetics and Phonology of Modern German A course designed for undergraduates and graduates on the structure of modern German covering the fundamentals of German phonetics and phonology, with comparison to English. Some discussion of German dialect phonology.
German^The Morphology and Syntax of Modern German The Morphology and Syntax of Modern German A course designed for undergraduates and graduates on the grammatical structure of modern German covering the fundamentals of German morphology, syntax and semantics, with comparison to English.
German^Undergraduate Seminars: 20th-Century Poetry Undergraduate Seminars: 20th-Century Poetry Analysis of various poetry from the beginning of the century to today, including works by Trakl, Benn, Bachmann, Sachs, Celan, and Brinkmann. A 20-page research paper will be part of the requirements for this course.
German^The Cultural History of Switzerland in Literature and Film The Cultural History of Switzerland in Literature and Film On the basis of literary texts (in translation) and films, we will examine major topics pertaining to the cultural identity of Switzerland. Special attention will be paid to the cultural history of Switerzland in a European context. Themes in discussion will be Swiss multiculturalism and multilingualism, the importance of the Alps for national self-identification, the origin and development of the Swiss model of direct democracy, and the Swiss policy of neutrality.
German^Semiotics Semiotics This course introduces principal figures from the basic disciplines of philosophy, biology, and linguistics who are particularly influential in current trends in semiotic method. It undertakes to lay the foundation of a semiotic method distinct from monolithic traditional structuralism, so, e.g, it concentrates on anti-Saussurean thought. In presenting semiotic universals, the course pursues the formulation and the application of a theoretical construct valid for any and all semiotic modalities
German^Special Topics in German Special Topics in German Topics will vary from semester to semester. See departmental announcement for offerings. Additional screening time may be required for film topics.
German^Special Topics in German Special Topics in German Issues in bilingualism for students of foreign languages. This course explores what research on bilingualism says about what it means to learn someone else's language -- the cognitive, affective, and social dimensions of second language acquisition, the relation of language and culture, and language and identity. Fieldwork will include observing, recording, and transcribing segments of foreign language classrooms, visits to bilingual schools in the area, and interviews with native speakers of various
German^German Cinema in Exile German Cinema in Exile The course will deal with the topic from various angles; a representative selection of American films noirs from the United States and some films (as forerunners) from the Weimar Republic will be shown and discussed in terms of their visuals and narratives. There will also be literary texts and cultural documents (articles on crime in the United States; on the working conditions in Hollywood) pertaining to the topic. Films have English subtitles.
German^Transnational Cinemas Transnational Cinemas This course will explore how experiences of migration, dislocation, or exile are visualized in cinema, and how processes of internationalization in film production and distribution intersect with the projection of a transnational global imagery. Some examples of transnational cinematic connections will be analyzed in historical perspective as well as contemporary examples of "migrant cinema." We will investigate how these films engage with debates about multiculturalism and assimilation/segregation
German^Honors Studies in German Honors Studies in German Supervised independent study and research course for honor students who are writing their theses for completion of the requirements for the Honors Program.
German^Honors Studies in German Honors Studies in German Two-semester supervised independent study and research course in which honor students research their theses topic the first semester (H196A) and write their theses the second semester (H196B) for completion of the requirements for the honors program.
German^Honors Studies in German Honors Studies in German Two-semester supervised independent study and research course in which honor students research their theses topic the first semester (H196A) and write their theses the second semester (H196B) for completion of the requirements for the honors program.
German^Proseminar in German Literature Proseminar in German Literature The course will give a brief introduction to the history of , draw attention to bibliographical and research tools, dwell on problems relating to critical editions of modern authors, familiarize students with as a profession in the U.S.A., and focus upon literary theory. Required of all M.A. candidates.
German^Major Periods in German Literature: Literature of the Middle Ages Major Periods in German Literature: Literature of the Middle Ages Survey of medieval German literature that concentrates on monuments of the Hohenstauffen period but also includes representative works from the later 13th, 14th and 15th centuries. Intended for M.A. candidates but open to all students with a working knowledge of Middle High German.
German^Major Periods in German Literature: 16th and 17th Century Major Periods in German Literature: 16th and 17th Century Recommended for M.A. candidates.
German^Major Periods in German Literature: 18th Century Major Periods in German Literature: 18th Century An introduction to major works of late Enlightenment, Sturm and Drang, and Classicism to Schiller's death.
German^Major Periods in German Literature: 19th Century Major Periods in German Literature: 19th Century A study of pivotal literary texts, including works by Goethe, Novalis, Holderlin, Heine, and Nietzsche.
German^Major Periods in German Literature: 20th Century Major Periods in German Literature: 20th Century A critical overview of major literary and intellectual currents between the initial and the final turn of the century. We will explore literary, sociocultural, and philosophical forces in their consequential interactions. Considerations will include Freud, Dada, Expressionism, National Socialism, Exile, post-World War II literature, countercultural texts, and post-modernism.
German^Compact Seminar Compact Seminar A compact seminar designed to feature distinguished short-term visitors from German-speaking countries who have expertise in German literature and culture to teach topics that complement regular departmental offerings. One short paper is required. Taught in German.
German^Studies in the Early Modern Studies in the Early Modern Survey of texts from the 15th and 16th centuries. A good reading knowledge of Middle High German is recommended.
German^Reading the German Literary Text Reading the German Literary Text Drawing on a variety of literary texts, periods, and genres, this seminar will present and explore different ways of reading. Topics will include literary hermeneutics and textual deconstruction.
German^Studies in the 18th Century: Age of Enlightenment Studies in the 18th Century: Age of Enlightenment . Literary texts will be studied as historical documents illuminating changes in literary theory and in religious and philosophical thought during the Enlightenment. Texts by Lessing, Herder, and Lenz, and some Storm and Stress plays.
German^Studies in the 19th Century: Topics in Romanticism Studies in the 19th Century: Topics in Romanticism Major authors and texts of the romantic period will be discussed.
German^Problems of Literary Theory Problems of Literary Theory Topics vary from year to year. For current topic see the department's "Course Descriptions" booklet.
German^Poetry and Thought Poetry and Thought This seminar examines the interrelationship of poetic and philosophical discourses, with an emphasis on roles and functions of language. Questions of style and writing will interrelate different genres of poetry and thought. The seminar will explore a tradition in which poetic thought and highly reflective poetry approach and at times merge with each other.
German^Film Theory: Historical and Systematic Perspectives Film Theory: Historical and Systematic Perspectives This seminar will examine traditional and recent critical approaches to the study of film. Knowledge of German and background in literary theory required.
German^Interdisciplinary Summer Seminar in German Studies Interdisciplinary Summer Seminar in German Studies Consisting of reguar meetings and discussions as well as weekly lectues by distinguished speakers from various disciplines, the seminar will explore instuitutional, political, social, and cultural aspects of the former two Germanies grappling with an ambiguous heritage. Within this framework participants will pursue individual directions in research. Topic varies from year to year.
German^Aspects of Literary and Cultural History Aspects of Literary and Cultural History A comparison of literary and cultural developments in Germany and the United States. Emphasis is placed on individual research designed to develop teaching materials.
German^History of the German Language History of the German Language Designed for students interested in the history of the language and culture of united Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein, which transverses a rich legacy from the , through Luther and Grimm, to Grass and . Discussion, via linguistic principles, of language processes in the genetic development of the German language, as well as its interchange over time with closely and remotely related languages.
German^Comparative Germanic Comparative Germanic Advanced topics in Germanic phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics. The principal Germanic dialects viewed within laryngeal theory and reconstruction.
German^Gothic Gothic Study of the linguistic structures of the earliest Germanic dialect with a sizable corpus. Indo-European origins, Germanic relationships, and Gothic as a synchronic construct are considered.
German^Old High German Old High German Reading of poetic and prose texts in Old High German. The synchronic and diachronic study of the dialects of the High German language from the eighth to the eleventh century within the framework of current linguistic method.
German^North Sea Germanic North Sea Germanic Readings and discussion of poetic and prose texts in the Ingwaeonic languages (broadly construed) not covered elsewhere: Old Low Franconian, Middle Dutch, Old Frisian, Middle Low German.
German^Old Saxon Old Saxon Study of the most provocative of the major Germanic languages in terms of structural identification. The literary and ethnographic setting of the and its shared isogrammar.
German^Approaches and Issues in the Study of Modern German Approaches and Issues in the Study of Modern German A survey of relevant contemporary issues and topics in linguistic research on the structure of German.
German^Seminar in German Linguistics Seminar in German Linguistics Variable topic. For specific topic contact departmental office.
German^Methods and Issues in German Morphology Methods and Issues in German Morphology The seminar will deal with the methods and results of morphological analysis as applied to the German language. It will introduce basic concepts and means of morphological analyses, as well as study and apply various theories of word structure to German. The primary concern will be the synchronic analyses of modern German word formation, but questions of a diachronic nature as well as ones about inflection will also be discussed.
German^German Syntax German Syntax Discussion of current syntactic theories as applied to a number of issues in modern German syntax with an eye toward their description and explanatory potential. Typological comparison, especially with English.
German^German Semantics German Semantics Concentration on the essential categories of semantics via data from German and Germanic. Extensive discussion of semantic change, the semantics of prevarication, and the semantics of pathological language.
German^Contrastive Grammars Contrastive Grammars Theory and methods of contrastive linguistic analyses. Study of pairs of contrastive language sets in two time perspectives: Modern German with Modern English and Early New High German with Early New English.
German^Semiotics Semiotics Discussion of the principal figures from the basic disciplines of philosophy, biology, and linguistics influential in current trends in semiotics. Application of Peircean semiotics to a wide range of semiotic modalities.
German^Individual Study for Graduate Students in Literature and Linguistics Individual Study for Graduate Students in Literature and Linguistics Primarily for post-M.A. students engaged in exploration of a restricted field, involving writing of a report, and for students writing their doctoral dissertations.
German^Seminar in Foreign Language Pedagogy: Teaching College German I Seminar in Foreign Language Pedagogy: Teaching College German I The course focuses on the theory and practice of foreign language pedagogy. It introduces students to second language acquisition research and its relationship to pedagogy, providing a basis for staying theoretically informed and for participating in professional discourse of the field throughout one's teaching career. It also emphasizes critical reflection on pedagogical practices. Includes a practical component dealing directly with the day-to-day challenges of teaching elementary German.
German^Seminar in Foreign Language Pedagogy: Teaching College German II Seminar in Foreign Language Pedagogy: Teaching College German II This course expands upon the basis of methodology and theory of language teaching covered in 350 and prepares students for teaching at the intermediate level. The theoretical and practical exploration of recent developments in second language teaching concentrates on instructional technology, teaching writing, teaching literary texts, and curriculum design. Students reflect on their development as teachers through a journal, video, and observation of their teaching, and the final portfolio.
Economics^Introduction to Economics Introduction to Economics A survey of economics designed to give an overview of the field.
Economics^Introduction to Economics--Lecture Format Introduction to Economics--Lecture Format The course provides a survey of economics principles and methods. It covers both microeconomics, the study of consumer choice, firm behavior, and market interaction, and macroeconomics, the study of economic growth, unemployment, and inflation. Special emphasis is placed on the application of economic tools to contemporary economic problems and policies. Economics 2 differs from Economics 1 in that it has an additional hour of lecture per week and can thus cover topics in greater depth. It is particularly
Economics^Introduction to Environmental Economics and Policy Introduction to Environmental Economics and Policy Introduction to microeconomics with emphasis on resource, agricultural, and environmental issues.
Economics^Economic Analysis--Micro Economic Analysis--Micro Resource allocation and price determination.
Economics^Economic Analysis--Macro Economic Analysis--Macro A study of the factors which determine national income, employment, and price levels, with attention to the effects of monetary and fiscal policy.
Economics^Economic Theory--Micro Economic Theory--Micro Theory of resource allocation and price determination with an emphasis on microeconomic principles.
Economics^Economic Theory--Macro Economic Theory--Macro A study of theories of the determination of national income, employment, and price levels, with attention to the effects of monetary and fiscal policy.
Economics^Natural Resource Economics Natural Resource Economics Introduction to the economics of natural resources. Land and the concept of economic rent. Models of optimal depletion of nonrenewable resources and optimal use of renewable resources. Application to energy, forests, fisheries, water, and climate change. Resources, growth, and sustainability.
Economics^Introduction to Mathematical Economics Introduction to Mathematical Economics Selected topics illustrating the application of mathematics to economic theory. This course is intended for upper-division students in Mathematics, Statistics, the Physical Sciences, and Engineering, and for economics majors with adequate mathematical preparation. No economic background is required.
Economics^Advanced Microeconomic Theory Advanced Microeconomic Theory This course explores some issues in advanced microeconomic theory, with special emphasis on game-theoretic models and the theory of choice under uncertainty. Specific applications will vary from year to year, but will generally include topics from information economics and models of strategic interaction.
Economics^History of Economic Thought History of Economic Thought A survey of the theories of major economists from Adam Smith to Keynes.
Economics^Game Theory in the Social Sciences Game Theory in the Social Sciences A non-technical introduction to game theory. Basic principle, and models of interaction among players, with a strong emphasis on applications to political science, economics, and other social sciences.
Economics^Game Theory in the Social Sciences Game Theory in the Social Sciences A non-technical introduction to game theory. Basic principle, and models of interaction among players, with a strong emphasis on applications to political science, economics, and other social sciences.
Economics^American Economic History American Economic History A survey of trends in the American economy; emphasis on factors explaining economic growth and on the changing distribution of the gains and losses associated with growth.
Economics^American Economic History American Economic History A survey of trends in the American economy; emphasis on factors explaining economic growth and on the changing distribution of the gains and losses associated with growth.
Economics^The World Economy in the Twentieth Century The World Economy in the Twentieth Century Development of the world economic system with particular reference to world-wide trading relationships. This course is equivalent to HISTORY 160; students will not receive credit for both courses.
Economics^Psychology and Economics Psychology and Economics This course presents psychological and experimental economics research demonstrating departures from perfect rationality, self-interest, and other classical assumptions of economics and explores ways that these departures can be mathematically modeled and incorporated into mainstream positive and normative economics. The course will focus on the behavioral evidence itself, especially on specific formal assumptions that capture the findings in a way that can be incorporated into economics. The implications
Economics^Industrial Organization and Public Policy Industrial Organization and Public Policy The organization and structure of production in the U.S. economy. Determinants of market structure, business behavior, and economic performance. Implications for antitrust policy.
Economics^Industrial Organization Seminar Industrial Organization Seminar Seminar on problems in the field of industrial organization. Seminar paper is required.
Economics^Government Regulation of Industry Government Regulation of Industry Problems of public policy in the field of industrial organization. Analysis of regulatory consequences with particular attention to economic performance.
Economics^Special Topics in Industrial Organization Special Topics in Industrial Organization Analysis of market structure, conduct and performance in selected industries. See course announcement for current topics.
Economics^Environmental Economics Environmental Economics Theories of externalities and public goods applied to pollution and environmental policy. Trade-off between production and environmental amenities. Assessing nonmarket value of environmental amenities. Remediation and clean-up policies. Environment and development. Biodiversity management.
Economics^Public Economics Public Economics This course focuses on the role of the government in the economy from a theoretical and empirical perspective. The aim of the course is to provide an understanding of the reasons for government intervention in the economy, analyzing the merits of possible government policies, and the response of economic agents to the government's actions. The course covers the analysis of tax policy, social insurance programs, public goods, environmental protection, and the interaction between different levels
Economics^Seminar in Public Sector Economics Seminar in Public Sector Economics Enrollment will be limited. A seminar paper is required.
Economics^Macroeconomic Policy from the Great Depression to Today Macroeconomic Policy from the Great Depression to Today This course will analyze the macroeconomic challenges and policy responses in the United States over the past century. Among the key topics studied are the Great Depression and the New Deal; boom and bust monetary and fiscal policy in the early post-World War II period; the Volcker disinflation and the Great Moderation; and the 2008 financial crisis and the Great Recession.
Economics^Financial Economics Financial Economics Analysis of financial assets and institutions. The course emphasizes modern asset valuation theory and the role of financial intermediaries, and their regulation, in the financial system.
Economics^Financial Economics Financial Economics Analysis of financial assets and institutions. The course emphasizes modern asset valuation theory and the role of financial intermediaries, and their regulation, in the financial system.
Economics^Financial and Behavioral Economics Financial and Behavioral Economics This course is an advanced class in Financial Economics. Topics include moral hazard (principal-agent problems, free cash flow), asymmetric Information (security issurance, dividends), mergers and acquisitions (theory, managerial incentives), corporate governance (separation of ownership and control, internal capital markets, superstar CEOs), corporate fraud (earnings manipulations). This class emphasizes the economic underpinning of financial decision-making and is mathematically and technically
Economics^Economic Statistics and Econometrics Economic Statistics and Econometrics Introduction to problems of observation, estimation, and hypothesis testing in economics. This course covers the linear regression model and its application to empirical problems in economics.
Economics^Econometric Analysis Econometric Analysis Introduction to problems of observation, estimation, and hypothesis testing in economics. This course covers the statistical theory for the linear regression model and its variants, with examples from empirical economics.
Economics^Applied Econometrics and Public Policy Applied Econometrics and Public Policy This course focuses on the sensible application of econometric methods to empirical problems in economics and public policy analysis. It provides background on issues that arise when analyzing non-experimental social science data and a guide for tools that are useful for empirical research. By the end of the course, students will have an understanding of the types of research designs that can lead to convincing analysis and be comfortable working with large scale data sets.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics This course will analyze the economic forces that shape labor markets, institutions, and performance in the U.S., Japan, and at least one European country (usually Germany). Institutions examined include trade unions, legal regulations, and social conventions.
Economics^Wage Theory and Policy Wage Theory and Policy This course focuses on theoretical and empirical analysis of wage and employment determination in the labor market. In addition, the role of public policy in affecting wage and employment outcomes in the U.S. labor market is examined. Topics include labor supply, labor demand, minimum wages, the economics of education and training, discrimination and the impact of antidiscrimination programs, changes in wage inequality over time, immigration, unions, unemployment, and poverty.
Economics^Wage Theory and Policy Wage Theory and Policy This course focuses on theoretical and empirical analysis of wage and employment determination in the labor market. In addition, the role of public policy in affecting wage and employment outcomes in the U.S. labor market is examined. Topics include labor supply, labor demand, minimum wages, the economics of education and training, discrimination and the impact of antidiscrimination programs, changes in wage inequality over time, immigration, unions, unemployment, and poverty.
Economics^Labor Economics Seminar Labor Economics Seminar Topics in labor economics. Seminar paper required.
Economics^Economics of Discrimination Economics of Discrimination Starting from Becker's classic book on the economics of discrimination, this course will focus on issues of difference and discrimination accociated with race, gender, or nation of birth, focusing particularly on credit and housing markets, education, and health care. The course looks carefully at the ways in which econometrics is used to address questions of discrimination.
Economics^Urban Economics Urban Economics Application of economic theory to urban problems. Topics covered include location theory, housing, transportation, and the fiscal problems of city government.
Economics^Health Economics Health Economics An economic analysis of policies and institutions in the U.S. health care sector. Topics covered include the supply and demand for health services, conceptual and policy issues relating to the provision of health insurance, and economic analysis of efficient regulatory policies toward the health care sector.
Economics^Economics of Transition: Eastern Europe Economics of Transition: Eastern Europe Economic behavior under socialism; socialism vs. capitalism. Transition challenges. Stylized facts of transition. Political economy of reform strategies. Liberalization and the macroeconomic environment. Privatization policies and enterprise restructuring. Legal reform, institutional change, and variation in economic performance across countries. Foreign trade and enlargement of the European Union to transition countries. The Washington consensus, transition, and the institutions of capitalism.
Economics^The Chinese Economy The Chinese Economy The Chinese economy, its institutions, reform and transition to the market, and development.
Economics^Economic Development Economic Development Problems of underdevelopment and poverty, policy issues, and development strategy.
Economics^Economic Development Economic Development Problems of underdevelopment and poverty, policy issues, and development strategy.
Economics^Case Studies in Economic Development Case Studies in Economic Development A detailed study of the problems of development in a selected geographical area in Asia or Africa or Latin America.
Economics^Economic Development Seminar Economic Development Seminar A seminar paper will be required.
Economics^Global Poverty and Impact Evaluation Global Poverty and Impact Evaluation Rather than simply describing the causes and symptoms of global poverty, this course will explore the variety of tools available for rigorously measuring the impact of development programs. Through weekly case studies of field research, the course will cover impact evaluation theory and methods. The course will culminate with a final project in which each student will design an impact evaluation of a policy or intervention.
Economics^Economic Demography Economic Demography A general introduction to economic demography, addressing the following kinds of questions: What are the economic consequences of immigration to the U.S.? Will industrial nations be able to afford the health and pension costs of the aging populations? How has the size of the baby boom affected its economic well being? Why has fertility been high in Third World countries? In industrial countries, why is marriage postponed, divorce high, fertility so low, and extramarital fertility rising? What are
Economics^Economic Demography Economic Demography A general introduction to economic demography, addressing the following kinds of questions: What are the economic consequences of immigration to the U.S.? Will industrial nations be able to afford the health and pension costs of the aging populations? How has the size of the baby boom affected its economic well being? Why has fertility been high in Third World countries? In industrial countries, why is marriage postponed, divorce high, fertility so low, and extramarital fertility rising? What are
Economics^International Trade International Trade The theory of international trade and its applications to tariff protection. This course is equivalent to UGBA 118; students will not receive credit for both courses.
Economics^International Trade International Trade The theory of international trade and its applications to tariff protection.
Economics^International Monetary Economics International Monetary Economics The balance of payments, the determination of the trade balance and income under fixed and floating exchange rates, money and prices in open economies, the internationalization of financial markets and its implications, international macroeconomic interdependence, capital flows, and the determination of the exchange rate.
Economics^Topics in Economic Research Topics in Economic Research This course discusses recent research and policy developments. The core objective is to expose students to different aspects of research in economics. A sequence of five different frontier research topics are studied in depth each semester. Each topic lasts three weeks, during which students will familiarize themselves with cutting-edge economic research and methodology. Students will then develop their own research ideas and write two medium- size research papers.
Economics^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Preparation for writing a thesis, finding and organizing a topic, gathering data and getting started. H195A is not prerequisite to H195B.
Economics^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Preparation and writing of an honors thesis under the supervision of a member of the faculty. H195AS is not a prerequisite to H195BS.
Economics^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Writing a thesis under the supervision of a faculty member. Applications and details through the departmental undergraduate office. H195A is not prerequisite to H195B.
Economics^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Preparation and writing of an honors thesis under the supervision of a member of the faculty.
Economics^Special Topics in Economics Special Topics in Economics Study in various fields of economics. Topics will vary from semester to semester and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Economics^Field Studies Field Studies Written proposal must be approved by Department Chair. Supervised field studies in economics. Projects may be initiated by the students.
Economics^Economic Theory Economic Theory Basic preparation for the Ph.D. program including theory of the firm and the consumer, game theory.
Economics^Economic Theory Economic Theory Basic preparation for the Ph.D. program including agency theory and mechanism design, general equilibrium theory.
Economics^Macroeconomic Theory Macroeconomic Theory Basic preparation for the Ph.D. program including aggregation theory, national accounting and index problems, survey of major short-term models, implications of various expectations hypotheses, wage price determination, the role of money and financial assets, theories of consumption and investment, disequilibrium theory, dynamic systems, and international considerations.
Economics^Macroeconomic Theory Macroeconomic Theory Basic preparation for the Ph.D. program including aggregation theory, national accounting and index problems, survey of major short-term models, implications of various expectations hypotheses, wage price determination, the role of money and financial assets, theories of consumption and investment, disequilibrium theory, dynamic systems, and international considerations.
Economics^Mathematical Tools for Economics Mathematical Tools for Economics The course provides a rigorous abstract treatment of the elements of real analysis and linear algebra central to current research in economics. The course develops in the students the ability to read mathematical proofs and to compose simple proofs on their own.
Economics^Mechanism Design and Agency Theory Mechanism Design and Agency Theory This course will study the optimal design of mechanisms in the presence of incomplete information and imperfect observability. The course will begin with the "classic" principal-agent problem and will then develop its applications to the "implicit contracts" theory of agency and to the choice of government policies for regulated industries. The second half of the course will treat the design of auctions, regulation with costly or imperfect monitoring, mechanism design with limited
Economics^Mathematical Economics Mathematical Economics Mathematical analysis of economic theory. The problems treated involve as wide a range of mathematical techniques and of economic topics as possible, including theories of preference, utility, demand, personal probability, games and general equilibrium. Also listed as IDS 213A-213B and Math 213A-213B.
Economics^Mathematical Economics Mathematical Economics Mathematical analysis of economic theory. The problems treated involve as wide a range of mathematical techniques and of economic topics as possible, including theories of preference, utility, demand, personal probability, games and general equilibrium. Also listed as IDS 213A-213B and Math 213A-213B.
Economics^Theory and Application of Non-Cooperative Games Theory and Application of Non-Cooperative Games This course will study both pure game theory and its application to such problems as oligopoly pricing, non-cooperative bargaining, predatory pricing, and optimal auctions. The focus will be on game theory as a modelling process as opposed to a body of known results.
Economics^Theory and Application of Non-Cooperative Games: II Theory and Application of Non-Cooperative Games: II The course will cover basic topics not covered in 209A; will provide a more thorough treatment of topics covered in 209A; will cover a selection of advanced topics.
Economics^Introduction to Economic History Introduction to Economic History Survey of some central themes in world economic history. Required of all Ph.D. candidates in economics.
Economics^Topics in European Economic History Topics in European Economic History A survey of some central themes in European economic history.
Economics^Topics in American Economic History Topics in American Economic History A survey of some central themes in American economic history.
Economics^Political Economics Political Economics Tools of political economics: preferences and institutions, electoral competition, agency, partisan politics. Redistributive politics: general interest politics, special interest politics. Comparative politics: electoral rules, separation of powers, political regimes. Dynamic politics: fiscal policy, growth.
Economics^Political Economics Political Economics Tools of political economics: preferences and institutions, electoral competition, agency, partisan politics. Redistributive politics: general interest politics, special interest politics. Comparative politics: electoral rules, separation of powers, political regimes. Dynamic politics: fiscal policy, growth.
Economics^Political Economics Political Economics Tools of political economics: preferences and institutions, electoral competition, agency, partisan politics. Redistributive politics: general interest politics, special interest politics. Comparative politics: electoral rules, separation of powers, political regimes. Dynamic politics: fiscal policy, growth.
Economics^Political Economics Political Economics Tools of political economics: preferences and institutions, electoral competition, agency, partisan politics. Redistributive politics: general interest politics, special interest politics. Comparative politics: electoral rules, separation of powers, political regimes. Dynamic politics: fiscal policy, growth.
Economics^Risk Seminar Risk Seminar This interdisciplinary seminar features seminar participants and guest speakers from academic institutions and financial services firms, presenting work on the analysis and management of risk in financial markets. Economics, statistics, finance, operations research, and other disciplines will be represented.
Economics^Seminar in Psychology and Economics Seminar in Psychology and Economics A graduate seminar in the field of behavioral economics.
Economics^Foundations of Psychology and Economics Foundations of Psychology and Economics This course presents psychological and experimental economics research demonstrating departures from perfect rationality, self-interest, and other classical assumptions of economics and explores ways that these departures can be mathematically modeled and incorporated into mainstream positive and normative economics. The course will focus on the behavioral evidence itself, especially on specific formal assumptions that capture the findings in a way that can be used by economists. Economic applications
Economics^Applications of Psychology and Economics Applications of Psychology and Economics This course will build off of the material presented in 219A. It will expand on the psychological and experimental economic research presented there, but will emphasize a range of economic applications and especially empirical research.
Economics^Industrial Organization Industrial Organization Market structure, conduct and performance in the unregulated sector of the American economy. Public policies related to the promotion or restriction of competition.
Economics^Industrial Organization Industrial Organization Continuation of 220A. The characteristics of regulated industries and the consequences of regulation for economic performance.
Economics^Special Topics in Industrial Organization Special Topics in Industrial Organization See course announcement for current topics.
Economics^Economics of Innovation Economics of Innovation Study of innovation, technical change, and intellectual property, including the industrial organization and performance of high-technology industries and firms; the use of economic, patent, and other bibliometric data for the analysis of technical change; legal and economic issues of intellectual property rights; science and technology policy; and the contributions of innovation and diffusion to economic growth. Methods of analysis are both theoretical and empirical, econometric and case study.
Economics^Economics of Institutions Economics of Institutions This course develops the proposition that institutions have pervasive ramifications for understanding economic organization. A comparative institutional approach is employed whereby the transaction is made the basic unit of analysis and alternative modes of organization are assessed with respect to their comparative contracting properties.
Economics^Workshop in Institutional Analysis Workshop in Institutional Analysis This seminar features current research of faculty, from UC Berkeley and elsewhere, and of advanced doctoral students who are investigating the efficacy of economic and non-economic forms of organization. An interdisciplinary perspective--combining aspects of law, economics, and organization--is maintained. Markets, hierarchies, hybrids, bureaus, and the supporting institutions of law and politics all come under scrutiny. The aspiration is to progressively build toward a new science of organization.
Economics^Public Economics Public Economics The economic and policy analysis of government expenditures, taxes, and intergovernmental fiscal relations. 230A is not a prerequisite for 230B.
Economics^Public Economics Public Economics Government intervention changes opportunities and incentives for firms, families, individuals, service providers, and state and local government. This course considers the incentive effects of government expenditure programs. The primary emphasis will be in the examination of the effect of social expenditure programs on individuals and families. Most of the papers will be empirical. The course will not contain an explicit section on methodology and econometric techniques; instead, relevant econometric
Economics^Public Sector Microeconomics Public Sector Microeconomics The economic and policy analysis of government expenditures, taxes, and intergovernmental fiscal relations.
Economics^Macroeconomic Finance Macroeconomic Finance Introduction to macroeconomic finance. Course covers static portfolio choice, capital asset pricing model (CAPM), consumption based models, dynamic equilibrium asset pricing theories, and current issues in behavioral finance. Strong emphasis on household finance and risk-sharing. Course is both theoretical and empirical.
Economics^Financial Decision-Making in Firms Financial Decision-Making in Firms This course provides a theoretical and empirical treatment of the core topics in corporate finance including internal corporate investment; external corporate investment (mergers and acquisitions); capital structure and financial contracting; bankruptcy; corporate governance.
Economics^Financial Economics Seminar Financial Economics Seminar This course presents speakers who work on the boundary of economics and finance, on topics including asset pricing, behavioral finance, and corporate finance.
Economics^Aggregate Economics Aggregate Economics Macroeconomic models; theory and practice of aggregate economics; rational expectations models; finance theory integrated with macro.
Economics^Aggregate Economics Aggregate Economics Macroeconomic models; theory and practice of aggregate economics; rational expectations models; finance theory integrated with macro.
Economics^Econometrics Econometrics Basic preparation for the Ph.D. program including probability and statistical theory and the classical linear regression model.
Economics^Econometrics Econometrics Basic preparation for the Ph.D. program including generalized least squares; instrumental variables estimation; generalized method of moments; time series analysis; and nonlinear models.
Economics^Econometrics Econometrics Intended for students specializing in econometrics and others with strong mathematical backgrounds. Linear and nonlinear statistical models and their applications in economics. Special problems in analyzing data from non-controlled experiments.
Economics^Econometrics Econometrics Simultaneous equations and time-series models.
Economics^Applied Econometrics Applied Econometrics Methods of applied econometrics, with emphasis on alternative modelling strategies and problems met in practice. Intended for doctoral students conducting empirical research.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics Analysis of labor market behavior.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics Analysis of labor market behavior.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics Analysis of labor market behavior.
Economics^Seminar in Labor Economics Seminar in Labor Economics Seminar for students at the doctoral dissertation level.
Economics^Comparative Economics Comparative Economics New issues raised by transition for economics. Political economy of reform: speed, sequencing, reform design, political economy of privatization. Allocative changes: speed of sectoral reallocation, price liberalization, output fall and macroeconomic dynamics, law enforcement, dynamics of institutional change.
Economics^Development Economics Development Economics Problems of underdevelopment and poverty, policy issues and development strategies.
Economics^Development Economics Development Economics Basic macro-policy planning with investment project analysis.
Economics^Microeconomics of Development Microeconomics of Development Theoretical and empirical analyses of poverty and inequality, household and community behavior, and contract and institutions in the context of developing countries.
Economics^Global Poverty and Impact Evaluation Global Poverty and Impact Evaluation Rather than simply describing the causes and symptoms of global poverty, this course will explore the variety of tools available for rigorously measuring the impact of development programs. Through weekly case studies of field research, the course will cover impact evaluation theory and methods. The course will culminate with a final project in which each student will design an impact evaluation of a policy or intervention.
Economics^Economic Demography Economic Demography Economic consequences of demographic change in developing and developed countries including capital formation, labor markets, and intergenerational transfers. Economic determinants of fertility, mortality and migration.
Economics^International Economics International Economics The world economy as a general equilibrium system. The theory of international economics, trade policy.
Economics^International Economics International Economics This course develops basic theoretical models for studying issues in open-economy macroeconomics. The current account and the trade balance, international capital market integration, developing country debt problems, the real exchange rate, fiscal policy in the open economy, and international policy coordination.
Economics^International Economics International Economics This course is an empirical treatment of open-economy macroeconomics and finance. Topics include trade elasticities, the determination of the trade balance and income under fixed and floating exchange rates, purchasing power parity, devaluation in small open economies, quantifying the degree of international capital mobility, implications for the effectiveness of monetary and fiscal policy, international interdependence and coordination, models of exchange rate determination.
Economics^Departmental Seminar Departmental Seminar A general interest seminar featuring speakers and topics of broad interest whose work will be important for all areas of economics.
Economics^Survey of Research in Economics Survey of Research in Economics Presentations by departmental faculty of new research directions in different subfields of economics.
Economics^Special Topics in Economics Special Topics in Economics Topics of different sections to be announced annually.
Economics^Directed Group Study for Graduates Directed Group Study for Graduates Seminars for the group of selected topics, which will vary from year to year.
Economics^GSI Practicum GSI Practicum Course credit for experience gained in academic teaching through employment as a graduate student instructor.
Economics^GSI Practicum GSI Practicum Course credit for experience gained in academic teaching through employment as a graduate student instructor.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Biomedicine for Engineers Introduction to Biomedicine for Engineers This course is intended for lower division students interested in acquiring a foundation in biomedicine with topics ranging from evolutionary biology to human physiology. The emphasis is on the integration of engineering applications to biology and health. The goal is for undergraduate engineering students to gain sufficient biology and human physiology fundamentals so that they are better prepared to study specialized topics, e.g., biomechanics, imaging, computational biology, tissue engineering
Bio Engineering^Aspects of Bioengineering Aspects of Bioengineering This introductory seminar is designed to give freshmen and sophomores a glimpse of a broad selection of bioengineering research that is currently underway at Berkeley and UCSF. Students will become familiar with bioengineering applications in the various concentration areas and see how engineering principles can be applied to biological and medical problems.
Bio Engineering^Careers in Biotechnology Careers in Biotechnology This introductory seminar is designed to give freshmen and sophomores an opportunity to explore specialties related to engineering in the pharmaceutical/biotech field. A series of one-hour seminars will be presented by industry professionals, professors, and researchers. Topics may include biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturing; process and control engineering; drug inspection process; research and development; compliance and validation; construction process for a GMP facility; project management;
Bio Engineering^Supervised Independent Group Studies Supervised Independent Group Studies Organized group study on various topics under the sponsorship of a member of the Bioengineering faculty.
Bio Engineering^Ethics in Science and Engineering Ethics in Science and Engineering The goal of this semester course is to present the issues of professional conduct in the practice of engineering, research, publication, public and private disclosures, and in managing professional and financial conflicts. The method is through historical didactic presentations, case studies, presentations of methods for problem solving in ethical matters, and classroom debates on contemporary ethical issues. The faculty will be drawn from national experts and faculty from religious studies, journalism
Bio Engineering^Instrumentation in Biology and Medicine Instrumentation in Biology and Medicine This course teaches the fundamental principles underlying modern sensing and control instrumentation used in biology and medicine. The course takes an integrative analytic and hands-on approach to measurement theory and practice by presenting and analyzing example instruments currently used for biology and medical research, including EEG, ECG, pulsed oximeters, Complete Blood Count (CBC), etc.
Bio Engineering^Biomechanics: Analysis and Design Biomechanics: Analysis and Design This course introduces, develops and applies the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena abundant in biology and medicine. It is intended for upper level undergraduate students who have been exposed to vectors, differential equations, and undergraduate course(s) in physics and certain aspects of modern biology.
Bio Engineering^Biological Transport Phenomena Biological Transport Phenomena The transport of mass, momentum, and energy are critical to the function of living systems and the design of medical devices. Biological transport phenomena are present at a wide range of length scales: molecular, cellular, organ (whole and by functional unit), and organism. This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biological transport phenomena over a range of length and time scales. The course is intended for undergraduate students who have taken
Bio Engineering^Biomedical Physiology for Engineers Biomedical Physiology for Engineers This course introduces students to the physiology of human organ systems, with an emphasis on quantitative problem solving, engineering-style modeling, and applications to clinical medicine. The course will begin with a review of basic principles of cellular physiology, including membrane transport and electrophysiology, and then take a system-by-system approach to the physiology of various organ systems, including the cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal, and endocrine systems. Throughout, the course
Bio Engineering^Functional Biomaterials Development and Characterization Functional Biomaterials Development and Characterization This course is intended for upper level engineering undergraduate students interested in the development of novel functional proteins and peptide motifs and characterization of their physical and biological properties using various instrumentation tools in quantitative manners.
Bio Engineering^Molecular Cell Biomechanics Molecular Cell Biomechanics This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum and statistical mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales, from molecular to cellular levels. It is intended for senior undergraduate students who have been exposed to differential equations, mechanics, and certain aspects of modern biology.
Bio Engineering^Molecular Biomechanics and Mechanobiology of the Cell Molecular Biomechanics and Mechanobiology of the Cell This course applies methods of statistical continuum mechanics to subcellar biomechanical phenomena ranging from nanoscale (molecular) to microscale (whole cell and cell population) biological processes at the interface of mechanics, biology, and chemistry.
Bio Engineering^Stem Cells and Technologies Stem Cells and Technologies This course will teach the main concepts and current views on key attributes of embryonic stem cells (ESC), will introduce theory of their function in embryonic development, methods of ESC derivation, propagation, and characterization, and will discuss currently developing stem cell technologies.
Bio Engineering^Cell Biology for Engineers Cell Biology for Engineers The structural and functional characteristics of tissues are altered by cells in response to culture conditions, loading, injury, and various other factors. A contemporary understanding of the form, function, and longevity of tissues includes knowledge of tissue microstructure, composition of matrix, and cell function. Students will be introduced to molecular biology techniques as applied to cells and tissues including immunofluorescence, image analysis, protein quantification, gene expression,
Bio Engineering^Cell and Tissue Engineering Cell and Tissue Engineering The goal of tissue engineering is to fabricate substitutes to restore tissue structure and functions. Understanding cell function in response to environmental cues will help us to establish design criteria and develop engineering tools for tissue fabrication. This course will introduce the basic concepts and approaches in the field, and train students to design and engineer biological substitutes. Lectures will be based on the textbook, the reference books and recent literature. Discussion sections
Bio Engineering^Structural Aspects of Biomaterials Structural Aspects of Biomaterials This course covers the structure and mechanical functions of load bearing tissues and their replacements. Natural and synthetic load-bearing biomaterials for clinical applications are reviewed. Biocompatibility of biomaterials and host response to structural implants are examined. Quantitative treatment of biomechanical issues and constitutive relationships of tissues are covered in order to design biomaterial replacements for structural function. Material selection for load bearing applications
Bio Engineering^Biological Performance of Materials Biological Performance of Materials This course is intended to give students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of topics related to biomedical materials selection and design. Structure-property relationships of biomedical materials and their interaction with biological systems will be addressed. Applications of the concepts developed include blood-materials compatibility, biomimetic materials, hard and soft tissue-materials interactions, drug delivery, tissue engineering, and biotechnology.
Bio Engineering^Orthopedic Biomechanics Orthopedic Biomechanics Statics, dynamics, optimization theory, composite beam theory, beam-on-elastic foundation theory, Hertz contact theory, and materials behavior. Forces and moments acting on human joints; composition and mechanical behavior of orthopedic biomaterials; design/analysis of artificial joint, spine, and fracture fixation prostheses; musculoskeletal tissues including bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, and muscle; osteoporosis and fracture-risk predication of bones; and bone adaptation. MATLAB-based project
Bio Engineering^BioMEMS and Medical Devices BioMEMS and Medical Devices Biophysical and chemical principles of biomedical devices, bionanotechnology, bionanophotonics, and biomedical microelectromechanical systems (BioMEMS). Topics include basics of nano- and microfabrication, soft-lithography, DNA arrays, protein arrays, electrokinetics, electrochemical, transducers, microfluidic devices, biosensor, point of care diagnostics, lab-on-a-chip, drug delivery microsystems, clinical lab-on-a-chip, advanced biomolecular probes, etc.
Bio Engineering^BioMems and BioNanotechnology Laboratory BioMems and BioNanotechnology Laboratory Students will become familiar with BioMEMS and Lab-on-a-Chip research. Students will design and fabricate their own novel micro- or nano-scale device to address a specific problem in biotechnology using the latest micro- and nano-technological tools and fabrication techniques. This will involve an intensive primary literature review, experimental design, and quantitative data analysis. Results will be presented during class presentations and at a final poster symposium.
Bio Engineering^Basic Principles of Drug Delivery Basic Principles of Drug Delivery This course focuses on providing students with the foundations needed to understand contemporary literature in drug delivery. Concepts in organic chemistry, biochemistry, and physical chemistry needed to understand current problems in drug delivery are emphasized.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Robotics Introduction to Robotics An introduction to the kinematics, dynamics, and control of robot manipulators, robotic vision, and sensing. The course covers forward and inverse kinematics of serial chain manipulators, the manipulator Jacobian, force relations, dynamics, and control. It presents elementary principles on proximity, tactile, and force sensing, vision sensors, camera calibration, stereo construction, and motion detection. The course concludes with current applications of robotics in active perception, medical robotics
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Computational Molecular and Cell Biology Introduction to Computational Molecular and Cell Biology Topics include computational approaches and techniques to gene structure and genome annotation, sequence alignment using dynamic programming, protein domain analysis, RNA folding and structure prediction, RNA sequence design for synthetic biology, genetic and biochemical pathways and networks, UNIX and scripting languages, basic probability and information theory. Various "case studies" in these areas are reviewed; web-based computational biology tools will be used by students and programming
Bio Engineering^Genetic Devices Genetic Devices This senior-level course is a comprehensive survey of genetic devices. These DNA-based constructs are comprised of multiple "parts" that together encode a higher-level biological behavior and perform useful human-defined functions. Such constructs are the engineering target for most projects in synthetic biology. Included within this class of constructs are genetic circuits, sensors, biosynthetic pathways, and microbiological functions.
Bio Engineering^Frontiers in Microbial Systems Biology Frontiers in Microbial Systems Biology This course is aimed at graduate and advanced undergraduate students from the (bio) engineering and chemo-physical sciences interested in a research-oriented introduction to current topics in systems biology. Focusing mainly on two well studied microbiological model systems--the chemotaxis network and Lambda bacteriophage infection--the class systematically introduces key concepts and techniques for biological network deduction, modelling, analysis, evolution, and synthetic network design. Students
Bio Engineering^Laboratory in the Mechanics of Organisms Laboratory in the Mechanics of Organisms Introduction to laboratory and field study of the biomechanics of animals and plants using fundamental biomechanical techniques and equipment. Course has a series of rotations involving students in experiments demonstrating how solid and fluid mechanics can be used to discover the way in which diverse organisms move and interact with their physical environment. The laboratories emphasize sampling methodology, experimental design, and statistical interpretation of results. Latter third of course
Bio Engineering^Synthetic Biology Laboratory Synthetic Biology Laboratory This laboratory course is designed as an introduction to research in synthetic biology, a ground-up approach to genetic engineering with applications in bioenergy, heathcare, materials science, and chemical production. In this course, we will design and execute a real research project. Each student will be responsible for designing and constructing components for the group project and then performing experiments to analyze the system. In addition to laboratory work, we will have lectures on methods
Bio Engineering^Computational Methods in Biology Computational Methods in Biology An introduction to biophysical simulation methods and algorithms, including molecular dynamics, Monte Carlo, mathematical optimization, and "non-algorithmic" computation such as neural networks. Various case studies in applying these areas in the areas of protein folding, protein structure prediction, drug docking, and enzymatics will be covered. Core Specialization: Core B (Informatics and Genomics); Core D (Computational Biology); BioE Content: Biological.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Protein Informatics Introduction to Protein Informatics This course will introduce students to the fundamentals of molecular biology, and to the bioinformatics tools and databases used for the prediction of protein function and structure. It is designed to impart both a theoretical understanding of popular computational methods, as well as some experience with protein sequence analysis methods applied to real data. This class includes no programming, and no programming background is required.
Bio Engineering^Protein Informatics Laboratory Protein Informatics Laboratory This course is intended to introduce students to a variety of bioinformatics techniques that are used to predict protein function and structure. It is designed to be taken concurrently with C144 (which provides the theoretical foundations for the methods used in the laboratory class), although students can petition to take this laboratory course separately. No programming is performed in this class, and no prior programming experience is required.
Bio Engineering^Introductory Electronic Transducers Laboratory Introductory Electronic Transducers Laboratory Laboratory exercises exploring a variety of electronic transducers for measuring physical quantities such as temperature, force, displacement, sound, light, ionic potential; the use of circuits for low-level differential amplification and analog signal processing; and the use of microcomputers for digital sampling and display. Lectures cover principles explored in the laboratory exercises; construction, response and signal to noise of electronic transducers and actuators; and design of circuits
Bio Engineering^Introductory Microcomputer Interfacing Laboratory Introductory Microcomputer Interfacing Laboratory Laboratory exercises constructing basic interfacing circuits and writing 20-100 line C programs for data acquisition, storage, analysis, display, and control. Use of the IBM PC with microprogrammable digital counter/timer, parallel I/O port. Circuit components include anti-aliasing filters, the S/H amplifier, A/D and D/A converters. Exercises include effects of aliasing in periodic sampling, fast Fourier transforms of basic waveforms, the use of the Hanning filter for leakage reduction, Fourier
Bio Engineering^Principles of Synthetic Biology Principles of Synthetic Biology The field of synthetic biology is quickly emerging as potentially one of the most important and profound ways by which we can understand and manipulate our physical world for desired purposes. In this course, the field and its natural scientific and engineering basis are introduced. Relevant topics in cellular and molecular biology and biophysics, dynamical and engineering systems, and design and operation of natural and synthetic circuits are covered in a concise manner that then allows the student
Bio Engineering^Bioenergy and Sustainable Chemical Synthesis: Metabolic Engineering and Synthetic Biology Approaches Bioenergy and Sustainable Chemical Synthesis: Metabolic Engineering and Synthetic Biology Approaches This course will cover metabolic engineering and the various synthetic biology approaches for optimizing pathway performance. Use of metabolic engineering to produce biofuels and general "green technology" will be emphasized since these aims are currently pushing these fields. The course is meant to be a practical guide for metabolic engineering and the related advances in synthetic biology as well the related industrial research and opportunities.
Bio Engineering^Introduction of Bionanoscience and Bionanotechnology Introduction of Bionanoscience and Bionanotechnology This course is intended for the bioengineering or engineering undergraduate students interested in acquiring a background in recent development of bio-nanomaterials and bio-nanotechnology. The emphasis of the class is to understand the properties of biological basis building blocks, their assembly principles in nature, and their application to build functional materials and devices. The goal is for the bioengineering students to gain sufficient chemical and physical aspects of biological materials
Bio Engineering^Micro/Nanofluidics for Bioengineering and Lab-On-A-Chip Micro/Nanofluidics for Bioengineering and Lab-On-A-Chip Introduction and in-depth treatment of theory relevant to fluid flow in microfluidic and nanofluidic systems supplemented by critical assessment of recent applications drawn from the literature. Topics include low Reynolds Number flow, mass transport including diffusion phenomena, and emphasis on electrokinetic systems and bioanalytical applications of said phenomena.
Bio Engineering^Principles of Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Principles of Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics This course provides undergraduate and graduate bioengineering students with an opportunity to increase their knowledge of topics in the emerging field of biophotonics with an emphasis on fluorescence spectroscopy, biosensors and devices for optical imaging and detection of biomolecules. This course will cover the photophysics and photochemistry of organic molecules, the design and characterization of biosensors and their applications within diverse environments.
Bio Engineering^Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Laboratory Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Laboratory This course provides undergraduate and graduate bioengineering students with an opportunity to acquire essential experimental skills in fluorescence spectroscopy and the design, evaluation, and optimization of optical biosensors for quantitative measurements of proteins and their targets. Groups of students will be responsible for the research, design, and development of a biosensor or diagnostic device for the detection, diagnosis, and monitoring of a specific biomarker(s).
Bio Engineering^Optics and Microscopy Optics and Microscopy This course teaches fundamental principles of optics and examines contemporary methods of optical microscopy for cells and molecules. Students will learn how to design simple optical systems, calculate system performance, and apply imaging techniques including transmission, reflection, phase, and fluorescence microscopy to investigate biological samples. The capabilities of optical microscopy will be compared with complementary techniques including electron microscopy, coherence tomography, and
Bio Engineering^Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Biomedical imaging is a clinically important application of engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and medicine. In this course, we apply linear systems theory and basic physics to analyze X-ray imaging, computerized tomography, nuclear medicine, and MRI. We cover the basic physics and instrumentation that characterizes medical image as an ideal perfect-resolution image blurred by an impulse response. This material could prepare the student for a career in designing new medical imaging systems
Bio Engineering^Practical Light Microscopy Practical Light Microscopy This laboratory course is designed for students interested in obtaining practical hands-on training in optical imaging and instrumentation. Using a combination of lenses, cameras, and data acquisition equipment, students will construct simple light microscopes that introduce basic concepts and limitations important in biomedical optical imaging. Topics include compound microscopes, Kohler illumination, Rayleigh two-point resolution, image contrast including dark-field and fluorescence microscopy
Bio Engineering^The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass After an introduction to the different aspects of our global energy consumption, the course will focus on the role of biomass. The course will illustrate how the global scale of energy guides the biomass research. Emphasis will be placed on the integration of the biological aspects (crop selection, harvesting, storage and distribution, and chemical composition of biomass) with the chemical aspects to convert biomass to energy. The course aims to engage students in state-of-the-art research.
Bio Engineering^Special Topics in Bioengineering Special Topics in Bioengineering This course covers current topics of research interest in bioengineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Bio Engineering^Senior Design Projects Senior Design Projects This semester-long course introduces students to bioengineering project-based learning in small teams, with a strong emphasis on need-based solutions for real medical and research problems through prototype solution selection, design, and testing. The course is designed to provide a "capstone" design experience for bioengineering seniors. The course is structured around didactic lectures, and a textbook, from which assigned readings will be drawn, and supplemented by additional handouts
Bio Engineering^Honors Undergraduate Research Honors Undergraduate Research Supervised research. Students who have completed 3 or more upper division courses may pursue original research under the direction of one of the members of the staff. May be taken a second time for credit only. A final report or presentation is required. A maximum of 4 units of this course may be used to fulfill the research or technical elective requirement or in the Bioengineering program.
Bio Engineering^Undergraduate Design Research Undergraduate Design Research Supervised research. This course will satisfy the Senior Bioengineering Design project requirement. Students with junior or senior status may pursue research under the direction of one of the members of the staff. May be taken a second time for credit only. A final report or presentation is required.
Bio Engineering^Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates Group study of a selected topic or topics in bioengineering, usually relating to new developments.
Bio Engineering^The Graduate Group Introductory Seminar The Graduate Group Introductory Seminar An introduction to research in bioengineering including specific case studies and organization of this rapidly expanding and diverse field.
Bio Engineering^Biological Performance of Materials Biological Performance of Materials This course is intended to give students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of topics related to biomedical materials selection and design. Structure-property relationships of biomedical materials and their interaction with biological systems will be addressed. Applications of the concepts developed include blood-materials compatibility, biomimetic materials, hard and soft tissue-materials interactions, drug delivery, tissue engineering, and biotechnology.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Orthopedic Biomechanics Advanced Orthopedic Biomechanics Students will learn the application of engineering concepts including statics, dynamics, optimization theory, composite beam theory, beam-on-elastic foundation theory, Hertz contact theory, and materials behavior. Topics will include forces and moments acting on human joints; composition and mechanical behavior of orthopedic biomaterials; design/analysis of artificial joint, spine, and fracture fixation prostheses; musculoskeletal tissues including bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, and muscle;
Bio Engineering^Cell and Tissue Mechanotransduction Cell and Tissue Mechanotransduction This course will focus on biophysical and bioengineering aspects of mechanotransduction, the process through which living cells sense and respond to their mechanical environment. Students will learn how mechanical inputs to cells influence both subcellular biochemistry and whole-cell behavior. They will also study newly-engineered technologies for force manipulation and measurement in living cells, and synthetic strategies to control the mechanics and chemistry of the extracellular matrix. Finally
Bio Engineering^Heat and Mass Transport in Biomedical Engineering Heat and Mass Transport in Biomedical Engineering Fundamental processes of heat and mass transport in biological systems; organic molecules, cells, biological organs, whole animals. Derivation of mathematical models and discussion of experimental procedures. Applications to biomedical engineering.
Bio Engineering^Fluid Mechanics of Biological Systems Fluid Mechanics of Biological Systems Fluid mechanical aspects of various physiological systems, the circulatory, respiratory, and renal systems. Motion in large and small blood vessels. Pulsatile and peristaltic flows. Other biofluidmechanical flows: the ear, eye, etc. Instrumentation for fluid measurements in biological systems and for medical diagnosis and applications. Artificial devices for replacement of organs and/or functions, e.g. blood oxygenators, kidney dialysis machines, artificial hearts/circulatory assist devices.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Tissue Mechanics Advanced Tissue Mechanics The goal of this course is to provide a foundation for characterizing and understanding the mechanical behavior of load-bearing tissues. A variety of mechanics topics will be introduced, including anisotropic elasticity and failure, cellular solid theory, biphasic theory, and quasi-linear viscoelasticity (QLV) theory. Building from this theoretical basis, we will explore the constitutive behavior of a wide variety of biological tissues. After taking this course, students should have sufficient background
Bio Engineering^Mechanobiology of the Cell: Dynamics of the Cytoskeleton and Nucleus Mechanobiology of the Cell: Dynamics of the Cytoskeleton and Nucleus This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum and statistical mechanics to understand micro- and nano-scale mechanobiological phenomena involved in the living cell with particular attention the nucleus and the cytoskelton as well as the interactions of the cell with the extracellular matrix and how these interactions may cause changes in cell architecture and biology, consequently leading to functional adaptation or pathological conditions.
Bio Engineering^Macromolecular Science in Biotechnology and Medicine Macromolecular Science in Biotechnology and Medicine Overview of the problems associated with the selection and function of polymers used in biotechnology and medicine. Principles of polymer science, polymer synthesis, and structure-property-performance relationships of polymers. Particular emphasis is placed on the performance of polymers in biological environments. Interactions between macromolecular and biological systems for therapy and diagnosis. Specific applications will include drug delivery, gene therapy, tissue engineering, and surface engineering.
Bio Engineering^Biomimetic Engineering -- Engineering from Biology Biomimetic Engineering -- Engineering from Biology Study of nature's solutions to specific problems with the aim of determining appropriate engineering analogs. Morphology, scaling, and design in organisms applied to engineering structures. Mechanical principles in nature and their application to engineering devices. Mechanical behavior of biological materials as governed by underlying microstructure, with the potential for synthesis into engineered materials. Trade-offs between redundancy and efficiency. Students will work in teams on projects
Bio Engineering^Stem Cells and Directed Organogenesis Stem Cells and Directed Organogenesis This course will provide an overview of basic and applied embryonic stem cell (ESC) biology. Topics will include early embryonic development, ESC laboratory methods, biomaterials for directed differentiation and other stem cell manipulations, and clinical uses of stem cells.
Bio Engineering^Protein Engineering Protein Engineering An in-depth study of the current methods used to design and engineer proteins. Emphasis on how strategies can be applied in the laboratory. Relevant case studies presented to illustrate method variations and applications. Intended for graduate students.
Bio Engineering^Cells and Biomaterials Laboratory Cells and Biomaterials Laboratory The objective of this course is to teach graduate students the essential laboratory techniques in the design and characterization and analysis of cells and biomaterials. The course will cover basics on synthetic biomaterials and native matrix, cellular responses to biomaterials, three-dimensional culture, and tissue engineering. The course includes a lecture and a laboratory section each week. There will be a midterm exam, final exam, and a tissue engineering group project.
Bio Engineering^Advanced BioMEMS and Bionanotechnology Advanced BioMEMS and Bionanotechnology Biophysical and chemical principles of biomedical devices, bionanotechnology, bionanophotonics, and biomedical microelectromechanical systems (BioMEMS). Topics include basics of nano-& microfabrication, soft-lithography, DNA arrays, protein arrays, electrokinetics, electrochemical transducers, microfluidic devices, biosensor, point of care diagnostics, lab-on-a-chip, drug delivery microsystems, clinical lab-on-a-chip, advanced biomolecular probes, biomolecular spectroscopy, and etc.
Bio Engineering^BioMEMS and BioNanotechnology Laboratory BioMEMS and BioNanotechnology Laboratory Students will become familiar with BioMEMS and Lab-on-a-Chip research. Students will design and fabricate their own novel micro- or nano-scale device to address a specific problem in biotechnology using the latest micro- and nano-technological tools and fabrication techniques. This will involve an intensive primary literature review, experimental design, and quantitative data analysis. Results will be presented during class presentations and at a final poster symposium.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Structural Aspects of Biomaterials Advanced Structural Aspects of Biomaterials This course covers the structure and mechanical functions of load bearing tissues and their replacements. Biocompatibility of biomaterials and host response to structural implants are examined. Quantitative treatment of biomechanical issues and constitutive relationships of materials are covered in order to design implants for structural function. Material selection for load bearing applications including reconstructive surgery, orthopedics, dentistry, and cardiology are addressed.
Bio Engineering^Polymer Engineering Polymer Engineering A survey of the structure and mechanical properties of advanced engineering polymers. Topics include rubber elasticity, viscoelasticity, mechanical properties, yielding, deformation, and fracture mechanisms of various classes of polymers. The course will discuss degradation schemes of polymers and long-term performance issues. The class will include polymer applications in bioengineering and medicine.
Bio Engineering^Basic Principles of Drug Delivery Basic Principles of Drug Delivery This course focuses on providing students with the foundations needed to understand contemporary literature in drug delivery. Concepts in organic chemistry, biochemistry, and physical chemistry needed to understand current problems in drug delivery are emphasized.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Computational Molecular and Cellular Biology Introduction to Computational Molecular and Cellular Biology Topics include computational approaches and techniques to gene structure and genome annotation, sequence alignment using dynamic programming, protein domain analysis, RNA folding and structure prediction, RNA sequence design for synthetic biology, genetic and biochemical pathways and networks, UNIX and scripting languages, basic probability and information theory. Various "case studies" in these areas are reviewed and web-based computational biology tools will be used by students and programming
Bio Engineering^Genetic Devices Genetic Devices This graduate-level course is a comprehensive survey of genetic devices. These DNA-based constructs are comprised of multiple "parts" that together encode a higher-level biological behavior and perform useful human-defined functions. Such constructs are the engineering target for most projects in synthetic biology. Included within this class of constructs are genetic circuits, sensors, biosynthetic pathways, and microbiological functions.
Bio Engineering^Frontiers in Microbial Systems Biology Frontiers in Microbial Systems Biology This course is aimed at graduate and advanced undergraduate students from the (bio) engineering and chemo-physical sciences interested in a research-oriented introduction to current topics in systems biology. Focusing mainly on two well studied microbiological model systems--the chemotaxis network and Lambda bacteriophage infection--the class systematically introduces key concepts and techniques for biological network deduction, modelling, analysis, evolution and synthetic network design. Students
Bio Engineering^Probabilistic Modeling in Computational Biology Probabilistic Modeling in Computational Biology This course reviews the statistical and algorithmic foundations of bioinformatics viewed through the lens of paleogenetics, the science of "Jurassic Park", i.e., the reconstruction of ancient genes and genomes by reverse Bayesian inference under various stochastic models of molecular evolution. Such methods, first proposed in the 1960s by Linus Pauling (and others), are now in reach of practical experimentation due to the falling cost of DNA synthesis technology. Applications of these
Bio Engineering^Computational Methods in Biology Computational Methods in Biology An introduction to biophysical simulation methods and algorithms, including molecular dynamics, Monte Carlo, mathematical optimization, and "non-algorithmic" computation such as neural networks. Various case studies in applying these areas in the areas of protein folding, protein structure prediction, drug docking, and enzymatics will be covered. Core Specialization: Core B (Informatics and Genomics); Core D (Computational Biology); Bioengineering Content: Biological.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Protein Informatics Introduction to Protein Informatics This course will introduce students to the fundamentals of molecular biology, and to the bioinformatics tools and databases used for the prediction of protein function and structure. It is designed to impart both a theoretical understanding of popular computational methods, as well as some experience with protein sequence analysis methods applied to real data. This class includes no programming, and no programming background required.
Bio Engineering^Protein Informatics Laboratory Protein Informatics Laboratory This course is intended to introduce students to a variety of bioinformatics techniques that are used to predict protein function and structure. It is designed to be taken concurrently with C244 (which provides the theoretical foundations for the methods used in the laboratory class), although students can petition to take this laboratory course separately. No programming is performed in this class, and no prior programming experience is required.
Bio Engineering^Principles of Synthetic Biology Principles of Synthetic Biology The field of synthetic biology is quickly emerging as potentially one of the most important and profound ways by which we can understand and manipulate our physical world for desired purposes. In this course, the field and its natural scientific and engineering basis are introduced. Relevant topics in cellular and molecular biology and biophysics, dynamical and engineering systems, and design and operation of natural and synthetic circuits are covered in a concise manner that then allows the student
Bio Engineering^Bioenergy and Sustainable Chemical Synthesis: Metabolic Engineering and Synthetic Biology Approaches Bioenergy and Sustainable Chemical Synthesis: Metabolic Engineering and Synthetic Biology Approaches This course will cover metabolic engineering and the various synthetic biology approaches for optimizing pathway performance. Use of metabolic engineering to produce biofuels and general "green technology" will be emphasized since these aims are currently pushing these fields. The course is meant to be a practical guide for metabolic engineering and the related advances in synthetic biology as well the related industrial research and opportunities.
Bio Engineering^Micro/Nanofluidics for Bioengineering and Lab-On-A-Chip Micro/Nanofluidics for Bioengineering and Lab-On-A-Chip Introduction and in-depth treatment of theory relevant to fluid flow in microfluidic and nanofluidic systems supplemented by critical assessment of recent applications drawn from the literature. Topics include low Reynolds Number flow, mass transport including diffusion phenomena, and emphasis on electrokinetic systems and bioanalytical applications of said phenomena.
Bio Engineering^Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Biomedical imaging is a clinically important application of engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and medicine. In this course, we apply linear systems theory and basic physics to analyze X-ray imaging, computerized tomography, nuclear medicine, and MRI. We cover the basic physics and instrumentation that characterizes medical image as an ideal perfect-resolution image blurred by an impulse response. This material could prepare the student for a career in designing new medical imaging systems
Bio Engineering^Principles of Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Principles of Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Topics in the emerging field of biophotonics with an emphasis on fluorescence spectroscopy, biosensors, and devices for optical imaging and detection of biomolecules. The course will cover the photophysics and photochemistry of organic molecules, the design and characterization of biosensors, and their applications within diverse environments, ranging from the detection of single molecules in vitro and in cells to studies of detection, diagnosis, and monitoring of specific health conditions and
Bio Engineering^Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Laboratory Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics Laboratory This course provides undergraduate and graduate bioengineering students with an opportunity to acquire essential experimental skills in fluorescence spectroscopy and the design, evaluation, and optimization of optical biosensors for quantitative measurements of proteins and their targets. Groups of students will be responsible for the research, design, and development of a biosensor or diagnostic device for the detection, diagnosis, and monitoring of a specific biomarker(s).
Bio Engineering^Principles of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Principles of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Fundamentals of MRI including signal-to-noise ratio, resolution, and contrast as dictated by physics, pulse sequences, and instrumentation. Image reconstruction via 2D FFT methods. Fast imaging reconstruction via convolution-back projection and gridding methods and FFTs. Hardware for modern MRI scanners including main field, gradient fields, RF coils, and shim supplies. Software for MRI including imaging methods such as 2D FT, RARE, SSFP, spiral and echo planar imaging methods.
Bio Engineering^Ethical and Social Issues in Translational Medicine Ethical and Social Issues in Translational Medicine This class is designed to introduce MTM students to their professional responsibilities as engineers and translational scientists. By the end of it, students will have experience communicating their ideas appropriately and effectively to their peers, their superiors, and those whom they manage or mentor. We will also discuss methods for having a successful graduate school experience - choosing and working on a project and preparing to meet post-graduate goals. Finally, some
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Nano-Science and Engineering Introduction to Nano-Science and Engineering A three-module introduction to the fundamental topics of Nano-Science and Engineering (NSE) theory and research within chemistry, physics, biology, and engineering. This course includes quantum and solid-state physics; chemical synthesis, growth fabrication, and characterization techniques; structures and properties of semiconductors, polymer, and biomedical materials on nanoscales; and devices based on nanostructures. Students must take this course to satisfy the NSE Designated Emphasis core requirement.
Bio Engineering^The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass After an introduction to the different aspects of our global energy consumption, the course will focus on the role of biomass. The course will illustrate how the global scale of energy guides the biomass research. Emphasis will be places on the integration of the biological aspects (crop selection, harvesting, storage, and distribution, and chemical composition of biomass) with the chemical aspects to convert biomass to energy. The course aims to engage students in state-of-art research.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Topics in Bioengineering Advanced Topics in Bioengineering This course covers current topics of research interest in bioengineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Technical Communication: Proposals, Patents, and Presentations Advanced Technical Communication: Proposals, Patents, and Presentations This course will help the advanced Ph.D. student further develop critically important technical communication traits via a series of lectures, interactive workshops, and student projects that will address the structure and creation of effective research papers, technical reports, patents, proposals, business plans, and oral presentations. One key concept will be the emphasis on focus and clarity--achieved through critical thinking regarding objectives and context. Examples will be drawn primarily
Bio Engineering^MTM Capstone Project MTM Capstone Project Members of the MTM Program Committee will help design several capstone projects in collaboration with clinical, academic, and/or industry partners, aiming to incorporate emerging technologies, industry requirements, and the potential for significant economic or social impact with regard to medicine and health care. All projects will be designed and vetted by the MTM Program Committee and in consultation with the MTM Advisory Board. For each selected project, an Academic Senate member from the Department
Bio Engineering^Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Advanced studies in various subjects through special seminars on topics to be selected each year. Informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.
Bio Engineering^Individual Study or Research Individual Study or Research Investigations of advanced problems in bioengineering.
Bio Engineering^Individual Study or Research Individual Study or Research Investigations of advanced problems in bioengineering.
Bio Engineering^Teaching Techniques for Bioengineering Teaching Techniques for Bioengineering Weekly seminars and discussions of effective teaching techniques. Use of educational objectives, alternative forms of instruction, and special techniques for teaching key concepts and techniques in bioengineering. Course is intended to orient new graduate student instructors to teaching in the Bioengineering department at Berkeley.
Earth Science^The Water Planet The Water Planet An overview of the processes that control water supply to natural ecosystems and human civilization. Hydrologic cycle, floods, droughts, groundwater. Patterns of water use, threats to water quality, effects of global climate change on future water supplies. Water issues facing California.
Earth Science^Geologic Record of Climate Change Geologic Record of Climate Change This course will review the geologic record of climate change emphasizing how such knowledge can constrain present day thinking about (and predictive models of) future climate change. We will cover the entire spectrum of climate variations, from the formation of the Earth's early atmosophere 4.6 billion years ago to the ice ages to the development of instrumental records.
Earth Science^The Planets The Planets A tour of the mysteries and inner workings of our solar system. What are planets made of? Why do they orbit the sun the way they do? How do planets form, and what are they made of? Why do some bizarre moons have oceans, volcanoes, and ice floes? What makes the Earth hospitable for life? Is the Earth a common type of planet or some cosmic quirk? This course will introduce basic physics, chemistry, and math to understand planets, moons, rings, comets, asteroids, atmospheres, and oceans. Understanding
Earth Science^The Planets The Planets A tour of the mysteries and inner workings of our solar system. What are planets made of? Why do they orbit the sun the way they do? How do planets form, and what are they made of? Why do some bizarre moons have oceans, volcanoes, and ice floes? What makes the Earth hospitable for life? Is the Earth a common type of planet or some cosmic quirk? This course will introduce basic physics, chemistry, and math to understand planets, moons, rings, comets, asteroids, atmospheres, and oceans. Understanding
Earth Science^Earthquakes in Your Backyard Earthquakes in Your Backyard Introduction to earthquakes, their causes and effects. General discussion of basic principles and methods of seismology and geological tectonics, distribution of earthquakes in space and time, effects of earthquakes, and earthquake hazard and risk, with particular emphasis on the situation in California.
Earth Science^Earthquakes in Your Backyard Earthquakes in Your Backyard Introduction to earthquakes, their causes and effects. General discussion of basic principles and methods of seismology and geological tectonics, distribution of earthquakes in space and time, effects of earthquakes, and earthquake hazard and risk, with particular emphasis on the situation in California.
Earth Science^Freshman Seminar in Earth and Planetary Sciences Freshman Seminar in Earth and Planetary Sciences The freshman seminar in earth and planetary science is designed to provide new students with an opportunity to explore a topic in geology or earth sciences with a faculty member in a small seminar setting. Topics will vary from semester to semester but will include such possible topics as great voyages of geologic discovery and the role of atmospheric sciences in geologic study.
Earth Science^The Planet Earth The Planet Earth An introduction to the physical and chemical processes that have shaped the earth through time, with emphasis on the theory of plate tectonics. Laboratory work will involve the practical study of minerals, rocks, and geologic maps and exercises on geological processes.
Earth Science^Big History--Cosmos, Earth, Life, and Humanity Big History--Cosmos, Earth, Life, and Humanity This course explores all four major regimes of history--cosmic history, Earth history, life history, and human history. Bringing together these normally unrelated topics, it seeks to understand the character of history by examining longterm trends and critical chance events, by looking for common causes underlying historical change in all four regimes, and by identifying the novelties that have made each regime unique. It offers a broad perspective for students interested in any one of the historical
Earth Science^Big History -- Cosmos, Earth, Life, and Humanity Big History -- Cosmos, Earth, Life, and Humanity This course explores all four major regimes of history -- cosmic history, Earth history, life history, and human history. Bringing together these normally unrelated topics, it seeks to understand the character of history by examining longterm trends and critical chance events, by looking for common causes underlying historical change in all four regimes, and by identifying the novelities that have made each regime unique. It offers a broad perspective for students interested in any one of the historical
Earth Science^Big History--Cosmos, Earth, Life, and Humanity Big History--Cosmos, Earth, Life, and Humanity This course explores all four major regimes of history--cosmic history, Earth history, life history, and human history. Bringing together these normally unrelated topics, it seeks to understand the character of history by examining longterm trends and critical chance events, by looking for common causes underlying historical change in all four regimes, and by identifying the novelties that have made each regime unique. It offers a broad perspective for students interested in any one of the historical
Earth Science^Environmental Earth Sciences Environmental Earth Sciences The course describes geologic processes active on and in the earth and man's interactions with them. Geologic aspects of use of the land and oceans based on an understanding of earth's environmental processes.
Earth Science^Oceans Oceans This course offers multidisciplinary approach to begin answering the question "Why are oceans important to us?" Upon a physical, chemical, and geologic base, we introduce the alien world of sea life, the importance of the ocean to the global carbon cycle, and the principles of ecology with a focus on the important concept of energy flow through food webs. Lectures expand beyond science to include current topics as diverse as music, movies, mythology, biomechanics, policy, and trade.
Earth Science^Introduction to Oceans Introduction to Oceans The geology, physics, chemistry, and biology of the world oceans. The application of oceanographic sciences to human problems will be explored through special topics such as energy from the sea, marine pollution, food from the sea, and climate change.
Earth Science^Minerals: Their Constitution and Origin Minerals: Their Constitution and Origin Introduction to structural, compositional, and physical properties of minerals, their analogs and related substances, their genesis in various geological and synthetic processes, and laboratory techniques to identify and investigate minerals. One field trip to selected mineral deposits and visits to laboratories.
Earth Science^Genesis and Interpretation of Rocks Genesis and Interpretation of Rocks Introduction to the principal geologic environments where rocks are formed and displayed. Igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic processes discussed in the context of global tectonics.
Earth Science^Communicating Ocean Science Communicating Ocean Science For undergraduates interested in improving their ability to communicate their scientific knowledge by teaching ocean science in elementary schools or science centers/aquariums. The course will combine instruction in inquiry-based teaching methods and learning pedagogy with six weeks of supervised teaching experience in a local school classroom or the Lawrence Hall of Science with a partner. Thus, students will practice communicating scientific knowledge and receive mentoring on how to improve their
Earth Science^Field Geology and Digital Mapping Field Geology and Digital Mapping Geological mapping, field observation, and problem-solving in the Berkeley hills and environs leading to original interpretation of geological processes and history from stratigraphic, structural, and lithological investigations. Integration of the Berkeley hills geology into the Coast Ranges and California as a whole through field trips to key localities. Training in digital field mapping, global positioning systems, and laser surveying. Interdisciplinary focus encourages participation by nonmajors.
Earth Science^History and Evolution of Planet Earth History and Evolution of Planet Earth Formation and evolution of the earth. Nucleosynthesis; formation of the solar system; planetary accretion; dating the earth and solar system; formation of the core, mantle, oceans, and atmosphere; plate tectonics; heat transfer and internal dynamics; stratigraphic record of environment, and evolution; climate history and climate change.
Earth Science^Introduction to Aquatic and Marine Geochemistry Introduction to Aquatic and Marine Geochemistry Introduction to marine geochemistry: the global water cycle; processes governing the distribution of chemical species within the hydrosphere; ocean circulation; chemical mass balances, fluxes, and reactions in the marine environment from global to submicron scales; carbon system equilibrium chemistry and biogeochemistry of fresh and salt walter; applications of natural and anthropogenic stable and radioactive tracers; internal ocean processes.
Earth Science^Mathematical Methods in Geophysics Mathematical Methods in Geophysics Linear systems. Linear inverse problems, least squares; generalized inverse, resolution; Fourier series, integral transforms; time series analysis, spherical harmonics; partial differntial equations of geophysics; functions of a complex variable; probability and significance tests, maximum likelihood methods. Intended for students in geophysics and other physical sciences.
Earth Science^Geodynamics Geodynamics Basic principles in studying the physical properties of earth materials and the dynamic processes of the earth. Examples are drawn from tectonics, mechanics of earthquakes, etc., to augment course material.
Earth Science^Computer Simulations in Earth and Planetary Sciences Computer Simulations in Earth and Planetary Sciences Introduction to modern computer simulation methods and their application to selected Earth and Planetary Science problems. In hands-on computer labs, students will learn about numerical algorithms, learn to program and modify provided programs, and display the solution graphically. This is an introductory course and no programming experience is required. Examples include fractals in geophysics, properties of materials at high pressure, celestial mechanics, and diffusion processes in the Earth. Topics
Earth Science^Petroleum Geology Petroleum Geology Basin development related to plate tectonics. Origin of petroleum: quality, quantity, thermal maturation of organic matter in source rock. Primary and secondary migration. Petroleum composition. Reservoir rock: stratigraphy and geometry. Traps: structural, stratigraphic or combination. Reservoir fluids and energy. Oil provinces, individual fields.
Earth Science^Stratigraphy and Earth History Stratigraphy and Earth History Collecting, analyzing, and presenting stratigraphic data; dating and correlating sedimentary rocks; recognizing ancient environments and reconstructing Earth history; seismic and sequence stratigraphy; event stratigraphy and neocatastrophism; applications of stratigraphy to climate change, petroleum geology, and archaeology.
Earth Science^Structural Geology and Tectonics Structural Geology and Tectonics Introduction to the geometry and mechanics of brittle and ductile geologic structures; their origins and genetic relation to stress fields and their use as kinematic indicators; case histories of selected regions to elucidate tectonic evolution in different plate tectonic settings. Laboratory exercises will focus on analysis of hand specimens and structural relations portrayed on geologic maps. Several trips to observe geologic structures in the field to supplement laboratory exercises.
Earth Science^Geomorphology Geomorphology Quantitative examination of landforms, runoff generation, weathering, mechanics of soil erosion by water and wind, mass wasting, glacial and periglacial processes and hillslope evolution.
Earth Science^Advanced Field Course Advanced Field Course Advanced geological mapping, intensive field observation, and problem solving in the field areas selected by instructors. Includes preparation of final reports.
Earth Science^Geologic Field Studies Geologic Field Studies Two to four weekend field trips to localities of geological interest.
Earth Science^Physics of the Earth and Planetary Interiors Physics of the Earth and Planetary Interiors Gravity field, density distribution, and internal seismic structure of the Earth and planets. Constitution, composition, temperature distribution, and energetics of the Earth's interior. The geomagnetic field and the geodynamo, and concepts in seismic imaging and geophysical fluid dynamics. This course welcomes physics, computer science, engineering and applied maths majors.
Earth Science^Isotopic Geochemistry Isotopic Geochemistry An overview of the use of natural isotopic variations to study earth, planetary, and environmental problems. Topics include geochronology, cosmogenic isotope studies of surficial processes, radiocarbon and the carbon cycle, water isotopes in the water cycle, and radiogenic and stable isotope studies of planetary evolution, mantle dynamics, volcanoes, groundwater, and geothermal systems. The course begins with a short introduction to nuclear processes and includes simple mathematical models used
Earth Science^Biometeorology Biometeorology This course describes how the physical environment (light, wind, temperature, humidity) of plants and soil affects the physiological status of plants and how plants affect their physical environment. Using experimental data and theory, it examines physical, biological, and chemical processes affecting transfer of momentum, energy, and material (water, CO2, atmospheric trace gases) between vegetation and the atmosphere. Plant biometeorology instrumentation and measurements are also discussed.
Earth Science^Strong Motion Seismology Strong Motion Seismology Generation of seismic waves. Synthetic accelerograms. Instrumentation to measure strong ground motion. Estimation of seismic motion at a site. Ground motion spectra. Influence of soils and geologic structures. Seismic risk mapping.
Earth Science^Geochemistry Geochemistry Chemical reactions in geological processes. Thermodynamic methods for predicting chemical equilibria in nature. Isotopic and chemical tracers of transport processes in the earth. Chemistry of the solid earth, oceans, and atmosphere.
Earth Science^Geological Oceanography Geological Oceanography The tectonics and morphology of the sea floor, the geologic processes in the deep and shelf seas, and the climatic record contained in deep-sea sediments. The course will cover sources and composition of marine sediments, sea-level change, ocean circulation, paleoenvironmental reconstruction using fossils, imprint of climatic zonation on marine sediments, marine stratigraphy, and ocean floor resources.
Earth Science^Case Studies in Earth Systems Case Studies in Earth Systems Analysis and discussion of three research problems on the interactions of solid earth, hydrologic, chemical, and atmospheric processes. Emphasis is on the synthesis and application of the student's disciplinary knowledge to a new integrative problem in the earth sciences.
Earth Science^Planetary Astrophysics Planetary Astrophysics Physics of planetary systems, both solar and extra-solar. Star and planet formation, radioactive dating, small-body dynamics and interaction of radiation with matter, tides, planetary interiors, atmospheres, and magnetospheres. High-quality oral presentations may be required in addition to problem sets and a final exam.
Earth Science^Crossroads of Earth Resources and Society Crossroads of Earth Resources and Society Intersection of geological processes with American cultures in the past, present, and future. Overview of ethnogeology including traditional knowledge of sources and uses of earth materials and their cultural influences today. Scientific approach to study of tectonic controls on the genesis and global distribution of energy fuels, metals, and industrial minerals. Evolution and diversity of opinion in attitudes about resource development, environmental management, and conservation on public, private
Earth Science^Geoarchaeological Science Geoarchaeological Science This survey and laboratory course will cover a broad range of current scientific techniques used in the field and in the analysis of geoarchaeological materials. The course includes field and laboratory studies in analytical chemistry, geology, petrology/petography and a survey of dating materials in archaeology, the historical development of geoarchaeological science and other aspects of archaeological science applied to geoarchaeological materials.
Earth Science^Applied Geophysics Applied Geophysics The theory and practice of geophysical methods for determining the subsurface distribution of physical rock and soil properties. Measurements of gravity and magnetic fields, electrical and electromagnetic fields, and seismic velocity are interpreted to map the subsurface distribution of density, magnetic susceptibility, electrical conductivity, and mechanical properties.
Earth Science^Air Pollution Air Pollution This course is an introduction to air pollution and the chemistry of earth's atmosphere. We will focus on the fundamental natural processes controlling trace gas and aerosol concentrations in the atmosphere, and how anthropogenic activity has affected those processes at the local, regional, and global scales. Specific topics include stratospheric ozone depletion, increasing concentrations of green house gasses, smog, and changes in the oxidation capacity of the troposphere.
Earth Science^Atmospheric Physics and Dynamics Atmospheric Physics and Dynamics This course examines the processes that determine the structure and circulation of the Earth's atmosphere. The approach is deductive rather than descriptive: to figure out the properties and behavior of the Earth's atmosphere based on the laws of physics and fluid dynamics. Topics will include interaction between radiation and atmospheric composition; the role of water in the energy and radiation balance; governing equations for atmospheric motion, mass conservation, and thermodynamic energy balance;
Earth Science^Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics Laboratory Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics Laboratory Fluid dynamics, radiative transfer, and the kinetics, spectroscopy, and measurement of atmospherically relevant species are explored through laboratory experiments, numerical simulations, and field observations.
Earth Science^Carbon Cycle Dynamics Carbon Cycle Dynamics The focus is the (unsolved) puzzle of the contemporary carbon cycle. Why is the concentration of atmospheric CO2 changing at the rate observed? What are the terrestrial and oceanic processes that add and remove carbon from the atmosphere? What are the carbon management strategies under discussion? How can emission protocols be verified? Students are encouraged to gain hands-on experience with the available data, and learn modeling skills to evaluate hypotheses of carbon sources and sinks.
Earth Science^Marine Geobiology Marine Geobiology Interrelationships between marine organisms and physical, chemical and geological processes in oceans.
Earth Science^Senior Honors Course Senior Honors Course Original research and preparation of an acceptable thesis. May be taken during two consecutive semesters of senior year and may be substituted for six units of the upper division requirement with consent of major adviser.
Earth Science^Field Study Field Study Written proposal signed by faculty sponsor and approved by major faculty advisor. Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of students' EPS specialization in off-campus organization. Regular meetings with faculty sponsor and written report required.
Earth Science^Problems in Hydrogeology Problems in Hydrogeology Current problems in fluid flow, heat flow, and solute transport in the earth. Pressure- and thermal-driven flow, instability, convection, interaction between fluid flow and chemical reactions. Pore pressure; faulting and earthquakes; diagenesis; hydrocarbon migration and trapping; flow-associated mineralization; contaminant problems.
Earth Science^Introduction to Aquatic and Marine Geochemistry Introduction to Aquatic and Marine Geochemistry Introduction to marine geochemistry: the global water cycle; processes governing the distribution of chemical species within the hydrosphere; ocean circulation; chemical mass balances, fluxes, and reactions in the marine environment from global to submicron scales; carbon system equilibrium chemistry and biogeochemistry of fresh and salt walter; applications of natural and anthropogenic stable and radioactive tracers; internal ocean processes.
Earth Science^Elastic Wave Propagation Elastic Wave Propagation Wave propagation in elastic solids; effects of anelasticity and anistropy; representation theorems; reflection and refraction; propagation in layered media; finite-difference and finite-element methods.
Earth Science^Laboratory in Observational Seismology Laboratory in Observational Seismology Group problem solving of current seismological topics. Analysis, inversion, and numerical modeling of seismic waveform data to investigate questions regarding the physics of the earthquake source and seismic wave propagation. Application of current developments and techniques in seismological research.
Earth Science^Matlab Applications in Earth Science Matlab Applications in Earth Science Introduction to Matlab programming with toolboxes. Applications come from Earth sciences and related fields including biology. Topics range from image processing, riverbed characterization, landslide risk analysis, signal processing, geospatial and seismic data analysis, and machine learning to parallel computation. Designed for beginning graduate students.
Earth Science^Exploration, Ore Petrology, and Geochemistry Exploration, Ore Petrology, and Geochemistry Overview of geological, petrological, and geochemical analysis of ore forming processes including sedimentary, magmatic, hydrothermal, and geothermal resources. Geochemical rock buffers and hydrothermal phase equilibria. Electro-geochemistry of near surface oxidation of primary ores related to climate change, hydrological evolution, and tectonics. Exploration for earth materials for conventional and sustainable technologies including multiple junction semiconductor photo-voltaic cells. Mass balance
Earth Science^Advanced Stratigraphy and Tectonics Advanced Stratigraphy and Tectonics Evolution of the earth in response to internal, surficial and extraterrestrial processes.
Earth Science^Active Tectonics Active Tectonics This course is a graduate course designed to introduce students in the earth sciences to the geology of earthquakes, including tectonic geomorphology, paleoseismology and the analysis and interpretation of geodetic measurements of active deformation. While the focus will be primarily on seismically active faults, we will also discuss deformation associated with landslides, regional isostatic rebound, and volcanoes, as well as measurements of global plate motions. We will address methods and applications
Earth Science^Fluvial Geomorphology Fluvial Geomorphology Application of fluid mechanics to sediment transport and development of river morphology. Form and process in river meanders, the pool-riffle sequence, aggradation, grade, and baselevel.
Earth Science^Advanced Concepts in Mineral Physics Advanced Concepts in Mineral Physics A combined seminar and lecture course covering advanced topics related to mineral physics. The interface between geophysics with the other physical sciences is emphasized. Topics vary each semester.
Earth Science^Isotopic Geochemistry Isotopic Geochemistry An overview of the use of natural isotopic variations to study earth, planetary, and environmental problems. Topics include geochronology, cosmogenic isotope studies of surficial processes, radiocarbon and the carbon cycle, water isotopes in the water cycle, and radiogenic and stable isotope studies of planetary evolution, mantle dynamics, volcanoes, groundwater, and geothermal systems. The course begins with a short introduction to nuclear processes and includes simple mathematical models used
Earth Science^Topics in High-Pressure Research Topics in High-Pressure Research Analysis of current developments and techniques in experimental and theoretical high-pressure research, with applications in the physical sciences. Topics vary each semester.
Earth Science^Introduction to Climate Modeling Introduction to Climate Modeling This course emphasizes the fundamentals of the climate system via a hierarchy of climate models. Topics will include energy balance, numerical techniques, climate observations, atmospheric and oceanic circulation and heat transports, and parameterizations of eddy processes. The model hierarchy will also explore nonlinear and stochastic processes, and biogeochemistry. Students will build computational models to investigate climate feedbacks, climate sensitivity, and response times.
Earth Science^Radiation and Its Interactions with Climate Radiation and Its Interactions with Climate Introduction to role of radiative processes in structure and evolution of the climate system. Electromagnetism; solar and terrestrial radiation; interactions of radiation with Earth's atmosphere, ocean, and land surface; greenhouse and runaway greenhouse effects; radiative balance of the climate system; energy-balance climate models; effects of clouds and aerosols; interactions of radiation with atmospheric and oceanic dynamics; radiative processes and paleoclimate; radiative processes and anthropogenic
Earth Science^Geological Fluid Mechanics Geological Fluid Mechanics An advanced course in the application of fluid mechanics in the earth sciences, with emphasis on the design and scaling of laboratory and numerical models. Principals of inviscid and viscous fluid flow; dynamic similarity; boundary layers; convection; instabilities; gravity currents; mixing and chaos; porous flow. Applications to mantle convection, magma dynamics, atmosphere and ocean dynamics, sediment/debris flows, and hydrogeology. Topics may vary from year to year.
Earth Science^Stable Isotope Ecology Stable Isotope Ecology Course focuses on principles and applications of stable isotope chemistry as applied to the broad science of ecology. Lecture topics include principles of isotope behavior and chemistry, and isotope measurements in the context of terrestrial, aquatic, and marine ecological processes and problems. Students participate in a set of laboratory exercises involving preparation of samples of choice for isotopic analyses, the use of the mass spectrometer and optical analysis systems, and the anlaysis of
Earth Science^Glaciology Glaciology A review of the mechanics of glacial systems, including formation of ice masses, glacial flow mechanisms, subglacial hydrology, temperature and heat transport, global flow, and response of ice sheets and glaciers. We will use this knowledge to examine glaciers as geomorphologic agents and as participants in climate change.
Earth Science^Solar System Astrophysics Solar System Astrophysics The physical foundations of planetary sciences. Topics include planetary interiors and surfaces, planetary atmospheres and magnetospheres, and smaller bodies in our solar system. The physical processes at work are developed in some detail, and an evolutionary picture for our solar system, and each class of objects, is developed. Some discussion of other (potential) planetary systems is also included.
Earth Science^Advanced Topics in Earth and Environmental Sciences Advanced Topics in Earth and Environmental Sciences Review of recent literature and discussion of ongoing research at the interface between earth science and environmental science.
Earth Science^Carbon Cycle Dynamics Carbon Cycle Dynamics In this course, we will focus on the (unsolved) puzzle of the contemporary carbon cycle. Why is the concentration of atmospheric CO2 changing at the rate observed? What are the terrestrial and oceanic processes that add and remove carbon from the atmosphere? What are the processes responsible for long-term storage of carbon on land and in the sea? Emphasis will be placed on the observations and modeling needed to evaluate hypotheses about carbon sources and sinks. Past records will be examined for
Earth Science^Advanced Topics in Seismology and Geophysics Advanced Topics in Seismology and Geophysics Lectures on various topics representing current advances in seismology and geophysics, including local crustal and earthquake studies, regional tectonics, structure of the earth's mantle, and core and global dynamics.
Earth Science^Advanced Topics in Earth and Planetary Science Advanced Topics in Earth and Planetary Science Lectures on various topics representing current advances in all aspects of earth and planetary science.
Earth Science^Earthquake of the Week Earthquake of the Week Each week, the seismicity of the previous week, in California and worldwide, is reviewed. Tectonics of the region as well as source parameters and waveforms of interest are discussed and placed in the context of ongoing research in seismology.
Earth Science^Research in Earth Science Research in Earth Science Weekly presentations to introduce new graduate students and senior undergraduates to current research conducted in the Department of Earth and Planetary Science.
Earth Science^Field Geology and Digital Mapping Field Geology and Digital Mapping Geological mapping, field observation, and problem solving in the Berkeley hills and environs leading to original interpretation of geological processes and history from stratigraphic, structural, and lithological investigations. Integration of the Berkeley hills geology into the tectonic and paleo-climatic record of the Coast Ranges and California as a whole through systematic field mapping in key localities and reading of original literature. Training in digital field mapping, use of digital base
Earth Science^Seismic Hazard Analysis and Design Ground Motions Seismic Hazard Analysis and Design Ground Motions Deterministic and probabilistic approaches for seismic hazard analysis. Separation of uncertainty into aleatory variability and epistemic uncertainty. Discussion of seismic source and ground motion characterization and hazard computation. Development of time histories for dynamic analyses of structures and seismic risk computation, including selection of ground motion parameters for estimating structural response, development of fragility curves, and methods for risk calculations.
Earth Science^Research Research Individual conferences to be arranged. Provides supervision in the preparation of an original research paper or dissertation.
Earth Science^Planetary Science Seminar Planetary Science Seminar The departments of Astronomy and Earth and Planetary Science offer a joint research seminar in advanced topics in planetary science, featuring speakers drawn from graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, faculty, and visiting scholars. Topics will span planetary interiors; surface morphology; atmospheres; dynamics; planet formation; and astrobiology. Speakers will vary from semester to semester. Meetings will be held once a week for 1 hour each, and the schedule of speakers will be determined
Earth Science^Energy Solutions: Carbon Capture and Sequestration Energy Solutions: Carbon Capture and Sequestration After a brief overview of the chemistry of carbon dioxide in the land, ocean, and atmosphere, the course will survey the capture and sequestration of CO2 from anthropogenic sources. Emphasis will be placed on the integration of materials synthesis and unit operation design, including the chemistry and engineering aspects of sequestration. The course primarily addresses scientific and engineering challenges and aims to engage students in state-of-the-art research in global energy challenges.
Earth Science^Communicating Ocean Science Communicating Ocean Science For graduate students interested in improving their ability to communicate their scientific knowledge by teaching ocean science in elementary schools or science centers/aquariums. The course will combine instruction in inquiry-based teaching methods and learning pedagogy with six weeks of supervised teaching experience in a local school classroom or the Lawrence Hall of Science with a partner. Thus, students will practice communicating scientific knowledge and receive mentoring on how to improve
Earth Science^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Geology and Geophysics Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Geology and Geophysics Discussion, curriculum, class observation, and practice teaching in geology, geophysics, and earth science.
Philosophy^Reading and Composition Through Philosophy Reading and Composition Through Philosophy Training in writing expository prose in conjunction with reading philosophical texts. Satisfies the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
Philosophy^Individual Morality and Social Justice Individual Morality and Social Justice Introduction to ethical and political philosophy.
Philosophy^The Nature of Mind The Nature of Mind Introduction to the philosophy of mind. Topics to be considered may include the relation between mind and body; the structure of action; the nature of desires and beliefs; the role of the unconscious.
Philosophy^Knowledge and Its Limits Knowledge and Its Limits Introduction to the theory of knowledge.
Philosophy^Man, God, and Society in Western Literature Man, God, and Society in Western Literature Philosophical issues as expressed in poetry, drama, and the novel. This course will compare and contrast the Greek, Medieval, and modern worlds, as reflected in their greatest literature, with special emphasis on the role of the community in reconciling conflicts between sub-groups in society and the individual's ability to understand and control his own life. We will also follow man's realization that the changing answers to these questions are themselves self-interpretations.
Philosophy^Existentialism in Literature and Film Existentialism in Literature and Film Christian, agnostic, and atheistic existentialism as expressed in the works of Dostoyevsky, Melville, Kafka, Antonioni, Goddard, etc.
Philosophy^Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion A survey of basic issues in contemporary philosophy of religion, exploring arguments about God's existence, the status of religious experiences and beliefs, how souls might interact with bodies, and the relationship of God to morality.
Philosophy^Introduction to Logic Introduction to Logic Syntax, semantics, and proof theory of sentential and predicate logic.
Philosophy^Business Ethics Business Ethics This course addresses the nature of ethical motivation and agency, with special attention to the individual's role in a business organization. Topics include theories of ethical motivation; individual character and organizational culture; personal integrity; corporate agency; corporate responsibility to society.
Philosophy^Introduction to Metaphysics Introduction to Metaphysics This course is an introduction to some of the traditional questions in metaphysics--the study of what there is in the world and how what there is is structured. Topics will include free will and determinism, the mind-body problem, and personal identity. If time permits, we will also examine arguments for the existence of God.
Philosophy^Concepts of the Person in Novel, Drama, and Film Concepts of the Person in Novel, Drama, and Film In any culture, the way we act implies some view of what it is to be a person, and indeed what it is to be a particular kind of person, e.g., black or white, male or female, citizen or non-citizen. This view determines what roles and privileges are available to specific individuals and how these individuals will think of themselves and evaluate their actions and obligations. We will focus on works of philosophy, literature and film which have had a powerful and lasting impact on our culture.
Philosophy^Confucius for Today Confucius for Today The teachings of Confucius (6th to 5th century B.C.) have had a profound influence on Chinese and East Asian cultures, and have attracted significant interest throughout the world. In what ways are they still of relevance to life in the twenty-first century? The course will consider the contemporary implications of Confucius’ teachings for such topics as: family, rituals, life and death, fate, contentment and anxiety, anger and resentment, courage, respectfulness, modesty and humility, trustworthiness
Philosophy^Philosophy of Biology Philosophy of Biology Are living things simply complex machines? Many philosophers and biologists think that they are, for to think otherwise seems to fly in the face of recent scientific advances and threatens to reintroduce into biology unscientific notions like "spirit" and "vital force". This course takes seriously the position that life can not be reduced to chemical and physical processes. We will also study ways this question affects our understanding of the freedom of the will, the relation
Philosophy^The Self and the World The Self and the World What sort of thing am I? And what is my relation to others, and to the world in general? We will consider versions of these questions, as they are asked and answered in a variety of classical and contemporary philosophical texts: what can we know about the world? Is the skeptic right to answer: nothing? What is it in the nature of minds (and bodies) which makes knowledge seem so problematic? How are minds and bodies related to those things which have them: persons? And how does this bear on the
Philosophy^Philosophy and Medicine Philosophy and Medicine We will consider the following questions: Is medicine a science? What are its aims? How are the central concepts of "health" and "disease" defined? What is meant by the charge that there is an "overmedication of everyday life" in our society and is that charge justified? What is "medical reductionism" and what are its limits? What are the assumptions behind "specialistic" and holistic"approaches to medicine and which of these two approaches
Philosophy^Social Justice Social Justice This course will examine the values underlying different visions of a just society. Freedom, equal opportunity, and community are considered important, for example, but there is little agreement on how theses values should be realized. The course will consider various perspectives on these values and their practical implications. Special attention will be devoted to the role of the government in economic affairs, equal educational opportunities, and nationalism.
Philosophy^Ancient Philosophy Ancient Philosophy The history of ancient philosophy with special emphasis on the Presocratics, Plato, and Aristotle.
Philosophy^Modern Philosophy Modern Philosophy The history of modern philosophy from Descartes through Kant.
Philosophy^Directed Group Study for Lower Division Students Directed Group Study for Lower Division Students Directed study on special topics.
Philosophy^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Philosophy^Philosophical Methods Philosophical Methods The course is designed to acquaint students with the techniques of philosophical reasoning through detailed study of selected philosophical texts and through extensive training in philosophical writing, based on those texts. Should be taken as early as possible after declaring the major.
Philosophy^Ethical Theories Ethical Theories The fundamental concepts and problems of morality examined through the study of classical and contemporary philosophical theories of ethics.
Philosophy^Moral Psychology Moral Psychology An investigation of central issues in moral psychology, such as: free will, weakness of will, self-deception, moral motivation, emotions, virtues, moral education.
Philosophy^Contemporary Ethical Issues Contemporary Ethical Issues This course will be devoted to in-depth discussion of a variety of problems in moral philosophy raised by real-life questions of individual conduct and social policy. Its contents will vary from occasion to occasion. Possible topics include philosophical problems posed by affirmative action, abortion, euthanasia, capital punishment, terrorism, war, poverty, and climate change.
Philosophy^Freedom and Responsibility Freedom and Responsibility A systematic examination of freedom and responsibility. The following topics will be addressed (among others): the relations between freedom of will, freedom of action, and autonomy; moral responsibility and its conditions; naturalism, determinism, and their relevance for human freedom; practical deliberation and the structure of the will; weakness and strength of will. Readings may be drawn from both historical and contemporary sources.
Philosophy^Aesthetics Aesthetics Visual arts/literature and music. Form, expression, representation style; interpretation and evaluation.
Philosophy^Special Topics in Aesthetics Special Topics in Aesthetics This course is intended to allow a more focused exploration of particular topics in aesthetics than is possible in Philosophy 110. Its contents will vary from occasion to occasion. Topics may include philosophical questions arising for particular art forms such as painting, music, or dance; questions about form, expression, representation, and emotion in aesthetic experience; or the ideas of particular aesthetic movements or schools of thought.
Philosophy^Music and Meaning Music and Meaning This course will explore the question of whether music has meaning, and if so, what kind. Can music represent, say, birdsong, or the sea, or merely imitate? If music expresses emotions, then whose--those of the listener? The composer? The performer? We will consider parallels and contrasts between linguistic and musical meaning, theories of how music can be expressive, and the question of whether music can convey political meaning.
Philosophy^History of Political Philosophy History of Political Philosophy A survey of the major political philosophers, including some or all of Plato, Aristotle, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Kant, Bentham, Mill, and Marx.
Philosophy^Political Philosophy Political Philosophy Analysis of political obligation and related problems.
Philosophy^Special Topics in Political Philosophy Special Topics in Political Philosophy This course is designed to deal with a variety of topics in political philosophy. Its contents will vary from occasion to occasion. Possible topics include problems in liberal theory; justice, desert, and responsibility; communitarianism, nationalism, and cosmopolitanism.
Philosophy^Feminism and Philosophy Feminism and Philosophy This course will introduce students to a range of historical and contemporary feminist issues.
Philosophy^Metaphysics Metaphysics An advanced introduction to contemporary metaphysics, focusing on the ideas of objectivity, existence, naturalness, identity, time, causation, and possibility.
Philosophy^Rationality and Irrationality in Science Rationality and Irrationality in Science Science is often regarded as preeminently rational. Yet recent work in philosophy, history and sociology of science suggests that scientific knowledge is no more rationally established than other sorts of knowledge, and that scientists' convictions are driven more by party loyalty and ego than by a pureminded pursuit of truth. This course will consider the case for and against the rationality of science. It will also consider the recent controversy concerning "scientific" creationism.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Science Philosophy of Science A survey of main topics in the logic of science and of other issues coming under the general heading of philosophy of science.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mind Philosophy of Mind Mind and matter; other minds; the concept "person."
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mind Philosophy of Mind Mind and matter; other minds; the concept of "person."
Philosophy^Form and Meaning Form and Meaning How is the meaning of a whole sentence determined by the meanings of its parts, and by its structure? This question is addressed in empirical semantic theories for natural language. The character and content of such theories has been a central concern both of the philosophy of language and of recent linguistics, and it is the central focus of this course.
Philosophy^Theory of Meaning Theory of Meaning Language as social behavior. Language compared to other sign systems. The foundations of semantics, truth, meaning, reference. Issues of logical form in belief sentences, indirect discourse, sentences about causality, events, actions. Relations between thought and language.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Perception Philosophy of Perception The philosophy of perception is a microcosm of the metaphysics of mind. Its central problems - What is perception? What is the nature of perceptual consciousness? How can one fit an account of perceptual experience into a broader account of the nature of the mind and the world? - are problems at the heart of metaphysics. It is often justifiably said that the theory of perception (and especially vision) is the area of psychology and neuroscience that has made the greatest progress in recent years.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Society Philosophy of Society This course deals with the ontology of society and thus provides a foundation for the social sciences. The main questions discussed are: 1) What is the mode of existence of social reality? 2) How does it relate to psychological and physical reality? 3) What implications does social ontology have for social explanations?
Philosophy^Intermediate Logic Intermediate Logic Major concepts, results, and techniques of modern logic. Basic set theoretic tools. Model theoretic treatment of propositional and first-order logic (completeness, compactness, Lowenheim-Skolem). Philosophical implcations of these results.
Philosophy^Intermediate Logic Intermediate Logic Major concepts, results, and techniques of modern logic. Turing machines, computability theory, undecidability of first-order logic, proof theory, Godel's first and second inompleteness theorms. Philosophical implications of these results.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Game Theory Philosophy and Game Theory An exploration of how game theory and rational choice theory shed light on traditional philosophical problems; and of new paradoxes and problems introduced by these theories.
Philosophy^Philosophical Logic Philosophical Logic The course aims at introducing students to the basic topics in philosophy of logic. Among the topics to be treated are the notions of validity, truth and truth functionality, quantification, and necessity.
Philosophy^Modal Logic Modal Logic An introduction to the logical study of modality in its many forms: reasoning about necessity, knowledge, obligation, time, counterfactuals, provability, and other modal notions. Covers core concepts and basic metatheory of propositional modal logic, including relations to first-order logic; basics of quantified modal logic; selected philosophical applications ranging from epistomology to ethics, metaphysics to mathematics.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mathematics Philosophy of Mathematics Foundations of mathematics: logicism, intuitionism, formalism. Set theoretical parardoxes, definition of numbers, problems of continuum.
Philosophy^Special Topics in Philosophy of Logic and Mathematics Special Topics in Philosophy of Logic and Mathematics This course is conceived in analogy with Philosophy 129 (Special Topics in Philosophy of Science). It is supposed to allow the class to focus on more specific problems in philosophy of logic or mathematics than can be treated in a broad introductory course such as Philosophy of Mathematics (Philosophy 146) or Philosophical Logic (Philosophy 142).
Philosophy^Medieval Philosophy Medieval Philosophy A study of some of the major philosophical texts from the medieval period with a focus on issues in metaphysics and epistemology. Topics may include universals, individuation, the nature and existence of God, faith and reason, skepticism, freedom, language, human nature and human cognition.
Philosophy^Foundations of Analytic Philosophy: Frege Foundations of Analytic Philosophy: Frege The work of Gottlob Frege with special emphasis on his contributions to logic, the philosophy of mathematics, and the philosophy of language.
Philosophy^Special Topics in Greek Philosophy Special Topics in Greek Philosophy The course is designed to deal with a variety of topics in Greek philosophy. Its contents will vary from occasion to occasion. Possible topics are: the close study of one or more of Plato's dialogues, the reading of one of Aristotle's texts, stoicism, scepticism, and neo-platonism.
Philosophy^Schopenhauer and Nietzsche Schopenhauer and Nietzsche An examination of the philosophy of Schopenhauer and Nietzsche.
Philosophy^Heidegger Heidegger A study of Heidegger's .
Philosophy^Later Wittgenstein Later Wittgenstein A close reading and extended discussion of central parts of Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations.
Philosophy^Special Topics in the History of Philosophy Special Topics in the History of Philosophy The course's specific content will vary from occasion to occasion but either the course will focus narrowly upon problems drawn from the work of a philosopher in the 160 to 178 series, or it will study several influential philosophers, active mainly before the twentieth century, who shared a common outlook or who were linked by other types of philosophically significant reaction to one another's work.
Philosophy^Phenomenology Phenomenology Backgrounds of phenomenology and existentialism. Husserl and Merleau-Ponty.
Philosophy^Phenomenology Phenomenology Backgrounds of phenomenology and existentialism. Husserl and Merleau-Ponty.
Philosophy^Special Topics in Recent European Philosophy Special Topics in Recent European Philosophy The course is designed to deal with a variety of topics in recent European philosophy. Its contents will vary from occasion to occasion. Possible topics include: further work in phenomenology and existentialism, the study of a particular text by an important figure in contemporary European philosophy, current French and German philosophy.
Philosophy^Proseminar Proseminar A seminar-style exploration of some topic in philosophy. The students and insturctor will investigate the topic in a collaborative way, through discussion rather than lecture. Topics vary from semester to semester. Enrollment is limited to 15 undergraduate philosophy majors.
Philosophy^Philosophy Tutorial Philosophy Tutorial The department will designate a tutor, under whose guidance the student will seek to satisfy the thesis requirement of the Honors Program.
Philosophy^Group Study Group Study Directed study on special topics.
Philosophy^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Philosophy^First-Year Graduate Seminar First-Year Graduate Seminar A combination seminar and tutorial, required of and limited to first year graduate students in philosophy.
Philosophy^Directed Studies Directed Studies Open to qualified students wishing to pursue special study or research under the direction of a member of the staff.
Philosophy^Dissertation Seminar Dissertation Seminar Presentations by graduate students of dissertation research in progress.
Philosophy^Professional Preparation: The Teaching of Philosophy Professional Preparation: The Teaching of Philosophy Students will work as teachers under the guidance of a faculty member. They will attend lectures, guide classroom discussion, and participate in a workshop in teaching methods.
Philosophy^Graduate Student Instructor Teaching Seminar Graduate Student Instructor Teaching Seminar A hands-on training seminar for new philosophy GSIs that addresses both practical and theoretical issues.
Philosophy^Independent Philosophical Studies Independent Philosophical Studies Reading or other advanced study by arrangement with a staff member, for preparation in advance of an examination for a higher degree.
Electrical Engineering^Designing Information Devices and Systems I Designing Information Devices and Systems I This course and its follow-on, Electrical Engineering 16B, focus on the fundamentals of designing and building modern information devices and systems that interface with the real world. The course sequence provides a comprehensive introduction to core EECS topics in circuit design, signals, and systems in an application-driven context. The courses are delivered assuming only minimal prior exposure to math and physics, and are aimed at entering students as well as non-majors seeking a broad introduction
Electrical Engineering^Designing Information Devices and Systems II Designing Information Devices and Systems II This course is a follow-on to Electrical Engineering 16A, and focuses on the fundamentals of designing and building modern information devices and systems that interface with the real world. The course sequence provides a comprehensive introduction to core EECS topics in circuit design, signals, and systems in an application-driven context. The courses are delivered assuming only minimal prior exposure to math and physics, and are aimed at entering students as well as non-majors seeking a broad
Electrical Engineering^Structure and Interpretation of Systems and Signals Structure and Interpretation of Systems and Signals Mathematical modeling of signals and systems. Continous and discrete signals, with applications to audio, images, video, communications, and control. State-based models, beginning with automata and evolving to LTI systems. Frequency domain models for signals and frequency response for systems, and sampling of continuous-time signals. A Matlab-based laboratory is an integral part of the course.
Electrical Engineering^What Electrical Engineers Do--Feedback from Recent Graduates What Electrical Engineers Do--Feedback from Recent Graduates A Berkeley Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences degree opens the door to many opportunities, but what exactly are they? Graduation is only a few years away and it's not too early to find out. In this seminar students will hear from practicing engineers who recently graduated. What are they working on? Are they working in a team? What do they wish they had learned better? How did they find their jobs?
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Microelectronic Circuits Introduction to Microelectronic Circuits Fundamental circuit concepts and analysis techniques in the context of digital electronic circuits. Transient analysis of CMOS logic gates; basic integrated-circuit technology and layout.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Digital Electronics Introduction to Digital Electronics This course serves as an introduction to the principles of electrical engineering, starting from the basic concepts of voltage and current and circuit elements of resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Circuit analysis is taught using Kirchhoff's voltage and current laws with Thevenin and Norton equivalents. Operational amplifiers with feedback are introduced as basic building blocks for amplication and filtering. Semiconductor devices including diodes and MOSFETS and their IV characteristics are
Electrical Engineering^Introductory Electronics Laboratory Introductory Electronics Laboratory Using and understanding electronics laboratory equipment such as oscilloscope, power supplies, function generator, multimeter, curve-tracer, and RLC-meter. Includes a term project of constructing and testing a robot or other appropriate electromechanical device.
Electrical Engineering^Field Study Field Study Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.
Electrical Engineering^Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Group study of selected topics in electrical engineering, usually relating to new developments.
Electrical Engineering^Individual Study and Research for Undergraduates Individual Study and Research for Undergraduates Supervised independent study and research for students with fewer than 60 units completed.
Electrical Engineering^Electronic Techniques for Engineering Electronic Techniques for Engineering This course serves as an introduction to the principles of electrical engineering, starting from the basic concepts of voltage and current and circuit elements of resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Circuit analysis is taught using Kirchhoff's voltage and current laws with Thevenin and Norton equivalents. Operational amplifiers with feedback are introduced as basic building blocks for amplification and filtering. Semiconductor devices including diodes and MOSFETS and their IV characteristics are
Electrical Engineering^Microelectronic Devices and Circuits Microelectronic Devices and Circuits This course covers the fundamental circuit and device concepts needed to understand analog integrated circuits. After an overview of the basic properties of semiconductors, the p-n junction and MOS capacitors are described and the MOSFET is modeled as a large-signal device. Two port small-signal amplifiers and their realization using single stage and multistage CMOS building blocks are discussed. Sinusoidal steady-state signals are introduced and the techniques of phasor analysis are developed,
Electrical Engineering^Power Electronics Power Electronics Power conversion circuits and techniques. Characterization and design of magnetic devices including transformers, reactors, and electromagnetic machinery. Characteristics of bipolar and MOS power semiconductor devices. Applications to motor control, switching power supplies, lighting, power systems, and other areas as appropriate.
Electrical Engineering^Electromagnetic Fields and Waves Electromagnetic Fields and Waves Review of static electric and magnetic fields and applications; Maxwell's equations; transmission lines; propagation and reflection of plane waves; introduction to guided waves, microwave networks, and radiation and antennas. Minilabs on statics, transmission lines, and waves.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Optical Engineering Introduction to Optical Engineering Fundamental principles of optical systems. Geometrical optics and aberration theory. Stops and apertures, prisms, and mirrors. Diffraction and interference. Optical materials and coatings. Radiometry and photometry. Basic optical devices and the human eye. The design of optical systems. Lasers, fiber optics, and holography.
Electrical Engineering^Signals and Systems Signals and Systems Continuous and discrete-time transform analysis techniques with illustrative applications. Linear and time-invariant systems, transfer functions. Fourier series, Fourier transform, Laplace and Z-transforms. Sampling and reconstruction. Solution of differential and difference equations using transforms. Frequency response, Bode plots, stability analysis. Illustrated by analysis of communication systems and feedback control systems.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Digital Communication Systems Introduction to Digital Communication Systems Introduction to the basic principles of the design and analysis of modern digital communication systems. Topics include source coding, channel coding, baseband and passband modulation techniques, receiver design, and channel equalization. Applications to design of digital telephone modems, compact disks, and digital wireless communication systems. Concepts illustrated by a sequence of MATLAB exercises.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Communication Networks Introduction to Communication Networks This course focuses on the fundamentals of the wired and wireless communication networks. The course covers both the architectural principles for making these networks scalable and robust, as well as the key techniques essential for analyzing and designing them. The topics include graph theory, Markov chains, queuing, optimization techniques, the physical and link layers, switching, transport, cellular networks and Wi-Fi.
Electrical Engineering^Digital Signal Processing Digital Signal Processing Discrete time signals and systems: Fourier and Z transforms, DFT, 2-dimensional versions. Digital signal processing topics: flow graphs, realizations, FFT, chirp-Z algorithms, Hilbert transform relations, quantization effects, linear prediction. Digital filter design methods: windowing, frequency sampling, S-to-Z methods, frequency-transformation methods, optimization methods, 2-dimensional filter design.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Robotics Introduction to Robotics An introduction to the kinematics, dynamics, and control of robot manipulators, robotic vision, and sensing. The course covers forward and inverse kinematics of serial chain manipulators, the manipulator Jacobian, force relations, dynamics, and control. It presents elementary principles on proximity, tactile, and force sensing, vision sensors, camera calibration, stereo construction, and motion detection. The course concludes with current applications of robotics in active perception, medical robotics
Electrical Engineering^Probability and Random Processes Probability and Random Processes This course covers the fundamentals of probability and random processes useful in fields such as networks, communication, signal processing, and control. Sample space, events, probability law. Conditional probability. Independence. Random variables. Distribution, density functions. Random vectors. Law of large numbers. Central limit theorem. Estimation and detection. Markov chains.
Electrical Engineering^Optimization Models in Engineering Optimization Models in Engineering This course offers an introduction to optimization models and their applications, ranging from machine learning and statistics to decision-making and control, with emphasis on numerically tractable problems, such as linear or constrained least-squares optimization.
Electrical Engineering^Feedback Control Systems Feedback Control Systems Analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems in transform and time domains. Control system design by root locus, frequency response, and state space methods. Applications to electro-mechanical and mechatronics systems.
Electrical Engineering^Neural and Nonlinear Information Processing Neural and Nonlinear Information Processing Principles of massively parallel real-time computation, optimization, and information processing via nonlinear dynamics and analog VLSI neural networks, applications selected from image processing, pattern recognition, feature extraction, motion detection, data compression, secure communication, bionic eye, auto waves, and Turing patterns.
Electrical Engineering^Integrated-Circuit Devices Integrated-Circuit Devices Overview of electronic properties of semiconductor. Metal-semiconductor contacts, pn junctions, bipolar transistors, and MOS field-effect transistors. Properties that are significant to device operation for integrated circuits. Silicon device fabrication technology.
Electrical Engineering^Fundamentals of Photovoltaic Devices Fundamentals of Photovoltaic Devices This course is designed to give an introduction to, and overview of, the fundamentals of photovoltaic devices. Students will learn how solar cells work, understand the concepts and models of solar cell device physics, and formulate and solve relevant physical problems related to photovoltaic devices. Monocrystalline, thin film and third generation solar cells will be discussed and analyzed. Light management and economic considerations in a solar cell system will also be covered.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Electric Power Systems Introduction to Electric Power Systems Overview of conventional electric power conversion and delivery, emphasizing a systemic understanding of the electric grid with primary focus at the transmission level, aimed toward recognizing needs and opportunities for technological innovation. Topics include aspects of a.c. system design, electric generators, components of transmission and distribution systems, power flow analysis, system planning and operation, performance measures, and limitations of legacy technologies.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Electric Power Systems Introduction to Electric Power Systems Overview of recent and potential future evolution of electric power systems with focus on new and emerging technologies for power conversion and delivery, primarily at the distribution level. Topics include power electronics applications, solar and wind generation, distribution system design and operation, electric energy storage, information management and communications, demand response, and microgrids.
Electrical Engineering^Linear Integrated Circuits Linear Integrated Circuits Single and multiple stage transistor amplifiers. Operational amplifiers. Feedback amplifiers, 2-port formulation, source, load, and feedback network loading. Frequency response of cascaded amplifiers, gain-bandwidth exchange, compensation, dominant pole techniques, root locus. Supply and temperature independent biasing and references. Selected applications of analog circuits such as analog-to-digital converters, switched capacitor filters, and comparators. Hardware laboratory and design project.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Digital Integrated Circuits Introduction to Digital Integrated Circuits CMOS devices and deep sub-micron manufacturing technology. CMOS inverters and complex gates. Modeling of interconnect wires. Optimization of designs with respect to a number of metrics: cost, reliability, performance, and power dissipation. Sequential circuits, timing considerations, and clocking approaches. Design of large system blocks, including arithmetic, interconnect, memories, and programmable logic arrays. Introduction to design methodologies, including hands-on experience.
Electrical Engineering^Integrated Circuits for Communications Integrated Circuits for Communications Analysis and design of electronic circuits for communication systems, with an emphasis on integrated circuits for wireless communication systems. Analysis of noise and distortion in amplifiers with application to radio receiver design. Power amplifier design with application to wireless radio transmitters. Radio-frequency mixers, oscillators, phase-locked loops, modulators, and demodulators.
Electrical Engineering^Microfabrication Technology Microfabrication Technology Integrated circuit device fabrication and surface micromachining technology. Thermal oxidation, ion implantation, impurity diffusion, film deposition, expitaxy, lithography, etching, contacts and interconnections, and process integration issues. Device design and mask layout, relation between physical structure and electrical/mechanical performance. MOS transistors and poly-Si surface microstructures will be fabricated in the laboratory and evaluated.
Electrical Engineering^Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization The modeling, analysis, and optimization of complex systems requires a range of algorithms and design software. This course reviews the fundamental techniques underlying the design methodology for complex systems, using integrated circuit design as example. Topics include design flows, discrete and continuous models and algorithms, and strategies for implementing algorithms efficiently and correctly in software. Laboratory assignments and a class project will expose students to state-of-the-art
Electrical Engineering^Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Biomedical imaging is a clinically important application of engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and medicine. In this course, we apply linear systems theory and basic physics to analyze X-ray imaging, computerized tomography, nuclear medicine, and MRI. We cover the basic physics and instrumentation that characterizes medical image as an ideal perfect-resolution image blurred by an impulse response. This material could prepare the student for a career in designing new medical imaging systems
Electrical Engineering^Introductory Electronic Transducers Laboratory Introductory Electronic Transducers Laboratory Laboratory exercises exploring a variety of electronic transducers for measuring physical quantities such as temperature, force, displacement, sound, light, ionic potential; the use of circuits for low-level differential amplification and analog signal processing; and the use of microcomputers for digital sampling and display. Lectures cover principles explored in the laboratory exercises; construction, response and signal to noise of electronic transducers and actuators; and design of circuits
Electrical Engineering^Introductory Microcomputer Interfacing Laboratory Introductory Microcomputer Interfacing Laboratory Laboratory exercises constructing basic interfacing circuits and writing 20-100 line C programs for data acquisition, storage, analysis, display, and control. Use of the IBM PC with microprogrammable digital counter/timer, parallel I/O port. Circuit components include anti-aliasing filters, the S/H amplifier, A/D and D/A converters. Exercises include effects of aliasing in periodic sampling, fast Fourier transforms of basic waveforms, the use of the Hanning filter for leakage reduction, Fourier
Electrical Engineering^Laboratory in the Mechanics of Organisms Laboratory in the Mechanics of Organisms Introduction to laboratory and field study of the biomechanics of animals and plants using fundamental biomechanical techniques and equipment. Course has a series of rotations involving students in experiments demonstrating how solid and fluid mechanics can be used to discover the way in which diverse organisms move and interact with their physical environment. The laboratories emphasize sampling methodology, experimental design, and statistical interpretation of results. Latter third of course
Electrical Engineering^Application Specific Integrated Circuits Laboratory Application Specific Integrated Circuits Laboratory This is a lab course that covers the design of modern Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs). The labs lay the foundation of modern digital design by first setting-up the scripting and hardware description language base for specification of digital systems and interactions with tool flows. Software testing of digital designs is covered leading into a set of labs that cover the design flow. Digital synthesis, floorplanning, placement and routing are covered, as well as tools to evaluate
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) This course will teach fundamentals of micromachining and microfabrication techniques, including planar thin-film process technologies, photolithographic techniques, deposition and etching techniques, and the other technologies that are central to MEMS fabrication. It will pay special attention to teaching of fundamentals necessary for the design and analysis of devices and systems in mechanical, electrical, fluidic, and thermal energy/signal domains, and will teach basic techniques for multi-domain
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Embedded Systems Introduction to Embedded Systems This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.
Electrical Engineering^Mechatronic Design Laboratory Mechatronic Design Laboratory Design project course, focusing on application of theoretical principles in electrical engineering to control of a small-scale system, such as a mobile robot. Small teams of students will design and construct a mechatronic system incorporating sensors, actuators, and intelligence.
Electrical Engineering^Senior Honors Thesis Research Senior Honors Thesis Research Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. A minimum of four units must be taken; the units may be distributed between one and two semesters in any way. To obtain credit a satisfactory thesis must be submitted at the end of the two semesters to the Electrical and Engineering and Computer Science Department archive. Students who complete four units and a thesis in one semester receive a letter grade at the end of H196A. Students who do not, receive an IP in H196A and must enroll in H196B.
Electrical Engineering^Senior Honors Thesis Research Senior Honors Thesis Research Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. A minimum of four units must be taken; the units may be distributed between one and two semesters in any way. To obtain credit a satisfactory thesis must be submitted at the end of the two semesters to the Electrical and Engineering and Computer Science Department archive. Students who complete four units and a thesis in one semester receive a letter grade at the end of H196A. Students who do not, receive an IP in H196A and must enroll in H196B.
Electrical Engineering^Field Study Field Study Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.
Electrical Engineering^Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates Group study of selected topics in electrical engineering, usually relating to new developments.
Electrical Engineering^Applied Electromagnetic Theory Applied Electromagnetic Theory Advanced treatment of classical electromagnetic theory with engineering applications. Boundary value problems in electrostatics. Applications of Maxwell's Equations to the study of waveguides, resonant cavities, optical fiber guides, Gaussian optics, diffraction, scattering, and antennas.
Electrical Engineering^Soft X-rays and Extreme Ultraviolet Radiation Soft X-rays and Extreme Ultraviolet Radiation This course will explore modern developments in the physics and applications of soft x-rays. It begins with a review of electromagnetic radiation at short wavelengths including dipole radiation, scattering and refractive index, using a semi-classical atomic model. Subject matter will include the generation of x-rays with laboratory tubes, synchrotron radiation, laser-plasma sources, x-ray lasers, and black body radiation. Concepts of spatial and temporal coherence will be discussed.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Robotics Introduction to Robotics An introduction to the kinematics, dynamics, and control of robot manipulators, robotic vision, and sensing. The course will cover forward and inverse kinematics of serial chain manipulators, the manipulator Jacobian, force relations, dynamics and control-position, and force control. Proximity, tactile, and force sensing. Network modeling, stability, and fidelity in teleoperation and medical applications of robotics.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Optical Engineering Introduction to Optical Engineering Fundamental principles of optical systems. Geometrical optics and aberration theory. Stops and apertures, prisms, and mirrors. Diffraction and interference. Optical materials and coatings. Radiometry and photometry. Basic optical devices and the human eye. The design of optical systems. Lasers, fiber optics, and holography.
Electrical Engineering^Numerical Simulation and Modeling Numerical Simulation and Modeling Numerical simulation and modeling are enabling technologies that pervade science and engineering. This course provides a detailed introduction to the fundamental principles of these technologies and their translation to engineering practice. The course emphasizes hands-on programming in MATLAB and application to several domains, including circuits, nanotechnology, and biology.
Electrical Engineering^Logic Synthesis Logic Synthesis The course covers the fundamental techniques for the design and analysis of digital circuits. The goal is to provide a detailed understanding of basic logic synthesis and analysis algorithms, and to enable students to apply this knowledge in the design of digital systems and EDA tools. The course will present combinational circuit optimization (two-level and multi-level synthesis), sequential circuit optimization (state encoding, retiming), timing analysis, testing, and logic verification.
Electrical Engineering^Computer-Aided Verification Computer-Aided Verification Introduction to the theory and practice of formal methods for the design and analysis of systems, with a focus on automated algorithmic techniques. Covers selected topics in computational logic and automata theory including formal models of reactive systems, temporal logic, model checking, and automated theorem proving. Applications in hardware and software verification, analysis of embedded, real-time, and hybrid systems, computer security, synthesis, planning, constraint solving, and other areas
Electrical Engineering^Concurrent Models of Computation Concurrent Models of Computation Theory and practice of concurrent models of computation (MoCs) with applications to software systems, embedded systems, and cyber-physical systems. Analysis for boundedness, deadlock, and determinacy; formal semantics (fixed point semantics and metric-space models); composition; heterogeneity; and model-based design. MoCs covered may include process networks, threads, message passing, synchronous/reactive, dataflow, rendezvous, time-triggered, discrete events, and continuous time.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Control Systems I Advanced Control Systems I Input-output and state space representation of linear continuous and discrete time dynamic systems. Controllability, observability, and stability. Modeling and identification. Design and analysis of single and multi-variable feedback control systems in transform and time domain. State observer. Feedforward/preview control. Application to engineering systems.
Electrical Engineering^Experiential Advanced Control Design I Experiential Advanced Control Design I Experience-based learning in the design of SISO and MIMO feedback controllers for linear systems. The student will master skills needed to apply linear control design and analysis tools to classical and modern control problems. In particular, the participant will be exposed to and develop expertise in two key control design technologies: frequency-domain control synthesis and time-domain optimization-based approach.
Electrical Engineering^Experiential Advanced Control Design II Experiential Advanced Control Design II Experience-based learning in the design, analysis, and verification of automatic control systems. The course emphasizes the use of computer-aided design techniques through case studies and design tasks. The student will master skills needed to apply advanced model-based control analysis, design, and estimation to a variety of industrial applications. The role of these specific design methodologies within the larger endeavor of control design is also addressed.
Electrical Engineering^Linear System Theory Linear System Theory Basic system concepts; state-space and I/O representation. Properties of linear systems. Controllability, observability, minimality, state and output-feedback. Stability. Observers. Characteristic polynomial. Nyquist test.
Electrical Engineering^Nonlinear Systems--Analysis, Stability and Control Nonlinear Systems--Analysis, Stability and Control Basic graduate course in non-linear systems. Second Order systems. Numerical solution methods, the describing function method, linearization. Stability - direct and indirect methods of Lyapunov. Applications to the Lure problem - Popov, circle criterion. Input-Output stability. Additional topics include: bifurcations of dynamical systems, introduction to the "geometric" theory of control for nonlinear systems, passivity concepts and dissipative dynamical systems.
Electrical Engineering^Stochastic Systems: Estimation and Control Stochastic Systems: Estimation and Control Parameter and state estimation. System identification. Nonlinear filtering. Stochastic control. Adaptive control.
Electrical Engineering^Digital Communications Digital Communications Introduction to the basic principles of the design and analysis of modern digital communication systems. Topics include source coding; channel coding; baseband and passband modulation techniques; receiver design; channel equalization; information theoretic techniques; block, convolutional, and trellis coding techniques; multiuser communications and spread spectrum; multi-carrier techniques and FDM; carrier and symbol synchronization. Applications to design of digital telephone modems, compact disks
Electrical Engineering^Fundamentals of Wireless Communication Fundamentals of Wireless Communication Introduction of the fundamentals of wireless communication. Modeling of the wireless multipath fading channel and its basic physical parameters. Coherent and noncoherent reception. Diversity techniques over time, frequency, and space. Spread spectrum communication. Multiple access and interference management in wireless networks. Frequency re-use, sectorization. Multiple access techniques: TDMA, CDMA, OFDM. Capacity of wireless channels. Opportunistic communication. Multiple antenna systems: spatial
Electrical Engineering^Digital Signal Processing Digital Signal Processing Advanced techniques in signal processing. Stochastic signal processing, parametric statistical signal models, and adaptive filterings. Application to spectral estimation, speech and audio coding, adaptive equalization, noise cancellation, echo cancellation, and linear prediction.
Electrical Engineering^Digital Image Processing Digital Image Processing 2-D sequences and systems, separable systems, projection slice thm, reconstruction from projections and partial Fourier information, Z transform, different equations, recursive computability, 2D DFT and FFT, 2D FIR filter design; human eye, perception, psychophysical vision properties, photometry and colorimetry, optics and image systems; image enhancement, image restoration, geometrical image modification, morphological image processing, halftoning, edge detection, image compression: scalar quantization
Electrical Engineering^Principles of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Principles of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Fundamentals of MRI including signal-to-noise ratio, resolution, and contrast as dictated by physics, pulse sequences, and instrumentation. Image reconstruction via 2D FFT methods. Fast imaging reconstruction via convolution-back projection and gridding methods and FFTs. Hardware for modern MRI scanners including main field, gradient fields, RF coils, and shim supplies. Software for MRI including imaging methods such as 2D FT, RARE, SSFP, spiral and echo planar imaging methods.
Electrical Engineering^Audio Signal Processing in Humans and Machines Audio Signal Processing in Humans and Machines Introduction to relevant signal processing and basics of pattern recognition. Introduction to coding, synthesis, and recognition. Models of speech and music production and perception. Signal processing for speech analysis. Pitch perception and auditory spectral analysis with applications to speech and music. Vocoders and music synthesizers. Statistical speech recognition, including introduction to Hidden Markov Model and Neural Network approaches.
Electrical Engineering^Random Processes in Systems Random Processes in Systems Probability, random variables and their convergence, random processes. Filtering of wide sense stationary processes, spectral density, Wiener and Kalman filters. Markov processes and Markov chains. Gaussian, birth and death, poisson and shot noise processes. Elementary queueing analysis. Detection of signals in Gaussian and shot noise, elementary parameter estimation.
Electrical Engineering^Applications of Stochastic Process Theory Applications of Stochastic Process Theory Advanced topics such as: Martingale theory, stochastic calculus, random fields, queueing networks, stochastic control.
Electrical Engineering^Optimization Models in Engineering Optimization Models in Engineering This course offers an introduction to optimization models and their applications, ranging from machine learning and statistics to decision-making and control, with emphasis on numerically tractable problems, such as linear or constrained least-squares optimization.
Electrical Engineering^Convex Optimization Convex Optimization Convex optimization is a class of nonlinear optimization problems where the objective to be minimized, and the constraints, are both convex. The course covers some convex optimization theory and algorithms, and describes various applications arising in engineering design, machine learning and statistics, finance, and operations research. The course includes laboratory assignments, which consist of hands-on experiments with the optimization software CVX, and a discussion section.
Electrical Engineering^Convex Optimization and Approximation Convex Optimization and Approximation Convex optimization as a systematic approximation tool for hard decision problems. Approximations of combinatorial optimization problems, of stochastic programming problems, of robust optimization problems (i.e., with optimization problems with unknown but bounded data), of optimal control problems. Quality estimates of the resulting approximation. Applications in robust engineering design, statistics, control, finance, data mining, operations research.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Convex Optimization Introduction to Convex Optimization The course covers some convex optimization theory and algorithms, and describes various applications arising in engineering design, machine learning and statistics, finance, and operations research. The course includes laboratory assignments, which consist of hands-on experience.
Electrical Engineering^High Speed Communications Networks High Speed Communications Networks Descriptions, models, and approaches to the design and management of networks. Optical transmission and switching technologies are described and analyzed using deterministic, stochastic, and simulation models. FDDI, DQDB, SMDS, Frame Relay, ATM, networks, and SONET. Applications demanding high-speed communication.
Electrical Engineering^Information Theory and Coding Information Theory and Coding Fundamental bounds of Shannon theory and their application. Source and channel coding theorems. Galois field theory, algebraic error-correction codes. Private and public-key cryptographic systems.
Electrical Engineering^Error Control Coding Error Control Coding Error control codes are an integral part of most communication and recording systems where they are primarily used to provide resiliency to noise. In this course, we will cover the basics of error control coding for reliable digital transmission and storage. We will discuss the major classes of codes that are important in practice, including Reed Muller codes, cyclic codes, Reed Solomon codes, convolutional codes, concatenated codes, turbo codes, and low density parity check codes. The relevant
Electrical Engineering^Integrated-Circuit Devices Integrated-Circuit Devices Overview of electronic properties of semiconductors. Metal-semiconductor contacts, pn junctions, bipolar transistors, and MOS field-effect transistors. Properties that are significant to device operation for integrated circuits. Silicon device fabrication technology.
Electrical Engineering^Solid State Devices Solid State Devices Physical principles and operational characteristics of semiconductor devices. Emphasis is on MOS field-effect transistors and their behaviors dictated by present and probable future technologies. Metal-oxide-semiconductor systems, short-channel and high field effects, device modeling, and impact on analog, digital circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Solid State Electronics Solid State Electronics Crystal structure and symmetries. Energy-band theory. Cyclotron resonance. Tensor effective mass. Statistics of electronic state population. Recombination theory. Carrier transport theory. Interface properties. Optical processes and properties.
Electrical Engineering^Integrated-Circuit Devices Integrated-Circuit Devices Overview of electronic properties of semiconductors. Metal-semiconductor contacts, pn junctions, bipolar transistors, and MOS field-effect transistors. Properties that are significant to device operation for integrated circuits. Silicon device fabrication technology.
Electrical Engineering^Solid State Devices Solid State Devices Physical principles and operational characteristics of semiconductor devices. Emphasis is on MOS field-effect transistors and their behaviors dictated by present and probable future technologies. Metal-oxide-semiconductor systems, short-channel and high field effects, device modeling, and impact on analog, digital circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Lightwave Devices Lightwave Devices This course is designed to give an introduction and overview of the fundamentals of optoelectronic devices. Topics such as optical gain and absorption spectra, quantization effects, strained quantum wells, optical waveguiding and coupling, and hetero p-n junction will be covered. This course will focus on basic physics and design principles of semiconductor diode lasers, light emitting diodes, photodetectors and integrated optics. Practical applications of the devices will be also discussed.
Electrical Engineering^Nanoscale Fabrication Nanoscale Fabrication This course discusses various top-down and bottom-up approaches to synthesizing and processing nanostructured materials. The topics include fundamentals of self assembly, nano-imprint lithography, electron beam lithography, nanowire and nanotube synthesis, quantum dot synthesis (strain patterned and colloidal), postsynthesis modification (oxidation, doping, diffusion, surface interactions, and etching techniques). In addition, techniques to bridging length scales such as heterogeneous integration
Electrical Engineering^Quantum and Optical Electronics Quantum and Optical Electronics Interaction of radiation with atomic and semiconductor systems, density matrix treatment, semiclassical laser theory (Lamb's), laser resonators, specific laser systems, laser dynamics, Q-switching and mode-locking, noise in lasers and optical amplifiers. Nonlinear optics, phase-conjugation, electrooptics, acoustooptics and magnetooptics, coherent optics, stimulated Raman and Brillouin scattering.
Electrical Engineering^Partially Ionized Plasmas Partially Ionized Plasmas Introduction to partially ionized, chemically reactive plasmas, including collisional processes, diffusion, sources, sheaths, boundaries, and diagnostics. DC, RF, and microwave discharges. Applications to plasma-assisted materials processing and to plasma wall interactions.
Electrical Engineering^Analog Integrated Circuits Analog Integrated Circuits Single and multiple stage transistor amplifiers. Operational amplifiers. Feedback amplifiers, 2-port formulation, source, load, and feedback network loading. Frequency response of cascaded amplifiers, gain-bandwidth exchange, compensation, dominant pole techniques, root locus. Supply and temperature independent biasing and references. Selected applications of analog circuits such as analog-to-digital converters, switched capacitor filters, and comparators. Hardware laboratory and design project.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits Analysis and optimized design of monolithic operational amplifiers and wide-band amplifiers; methods of achieving wide-band amplification, gain-bandwidth considerations; analysis of noise in integrated circuits and low noise design. Precision passive elements, analog switches, amplifiers and comparators, voltage reference in NMOS and CMOS circuits, Serial, successive-approximation, and parallel analog-to-digital converters. Switched-capacitor and CCD filters. Applications to codecs, modems.
Electrical Engineering^Analysis and Design of VLSI Analog-Digital Interface Integrated Circuits Analysis and Design of VLSI Analog-Digital Interface Integrated Circuits Architectural and circuit level design and analysis of integrated analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog interfaces in CMOS and BiCMOS VLSI technology. Analog-digital converters, digital-analog converters, sample/hold amplifiers, continuous and switched-capacitor filters. RF integrated electronics including synthesizers, LNA's, and baseband processing. Low power mixed signal design. Data communications functions including clock recovery. CAD tools for analog design including simulation and synthesis.
Electrical Engineering^Analog Integrated Circuits Analog Integrated Circuits Single and multiple stage transistor amplifiers. Operational amplifiers. Feedback amplifiers, 2-port formulation, source, load, and feedback network loading. Frequency response of cascaded amplifiers, gain-bandwidth exchange, compensation, dominant pole techniques, root locus. Supply and temperature independent biasing and references. Selected applications of analog circuits such as analog-to-digital converters, switched capacitor filters, and comparators.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits Analysis and optimized design of monolithic operational amplifiers and wide-band amplifiers; methods of achieving wide-band amplification, gain-bandwidth considerations; analysis of noise in integrated circuits and low noise design. Precision passive elements, analog switches, amplifiers and comparators, voltage reference in NMOS and CMOS circuits, Serial, successive-approximation, and parallel analog-to-digital converts. Switched-capacitor and CCD filters. Applications to codecs, modems.
Electrical Engineering^Analysis and Design of VLSI Analog-Digital Interface Integrated Circuits Analysis and Design of VLSI Analog-Digital Interface Integrated Circuits Architectural and circuit level design and analysis of integrated analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog interfaces in modern CMOS and BiCMOS VLSI technology. Analog-digital converters, digital-analog converters, sample/hold amplifiers, continuous and switched-capacitor filters. Low power mixed signal design techniques. Data communications systems including interface circuity. CAD tools for analog design for simulation and synthesis.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Digital Integrated Circuits Introduction to Digital Integrated Circuits CMOS devices and deep sub-micron manufacturing technology. CMOS inverters and complex gates. Modeling of interconnect wires. Optimization of designs with respect to a number of metrics: cost, reliability, performance, and power dissipation. Sequential circuits, timing considerations, and clocking approaches. Design of large system blocks, including arithmetic, interconnect, memories, and programmable logic arrays. Introduction to design methodologies, including hands-on laboratory experience.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Digital Integrated Circuits Advanced Digital Integrated Circuits Analysis and design of MOS and bipolar large-scale integrated circuits at the circuit level. Fabrication processes, device characteristics, parasitic effects static and dynamic digital circuits for logic and memory functions. Calculation of speed and power consumption from layout and fabrication parameters. ROM, RAM, EEPROM circuit design. Use of SPICE and other computer aids.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Digital Integrated Circuits Introduction to Digital Integrated Circuits CMOS devices and deep sub-micron manufacturing technology. CMOS inverters and complex gates. Modeling of interconnect wires. Optimization of designs with respect to a number of metrics: cost, reliability, performance, and power dissipation. Sequential circuits, timing considerations, and clocking approaches. Design of large system blocks, including arithmetic, interconnect, memories, and programmable logic arrays. Introduction to design methodologies, including laboratory experience.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Digital Integrated Circuits Advanced Digital Integrated Circuits Analysis and design of MOS and bipolar large-scale integrated circuits at the circuit level. Fabrication processes, device characteristics, parasitic effects static and dynamic digital circuits for logic and memory functions. Calculation of speed and power consumption from layout and fabrication parameters. ROM, RAM, EEPROM circuit design. Use of SPICE and other computer aids.
Electrical Engineering^Integrated Circuits for Communications Integrated Circuits for Communications Analysis and design of electronic circuits for communication systems, with an emphasis on integrated circuits for wireless communication systems. Analysis of noise and distortion in amplifiers with application to radio receiver design. Power amplifier design with application to wireless radio transmitters. Radio-frequency mixers, oscillators, phase-locked loops, modulators, and demodulators.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Integrated Circuits for Communications Advanced Integrated Circuits for Communications Analysis, evaluation and design of present-day integrated circuits for communications application, particularly those for which nonlinear response must be included. MOS, bipolar and BICMOS circuits, audio and video power amplifiers, optimum performance of near-sinusoidal oscillators and frequency-translation circuits. Phase-locked loop ICs, analog multipliers and voltage-controlled oscillators; advanced components for telecommunication circuits. Use of new CAD tools and systems.
Electrical Engineering^Integrated Circuits for Communications Integrated Circuits for Communications Analysis and design of electronic circuits for communication systems, with an emphasis on integrated circuits for wireless communication systems. Analysis of noise and distortion in amplifiers with application to radio receiver design. Power amplifier design with application to wireless radio transmitters. Radio-frequency mixers, oscillators, phase-locked loops, modulators, and demodulators.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Integrated Circuits for Communications Advanced Integrated Circuits for Communications Analysis, evaluation, and design of present-day integrated circuits for communications application, particularly those for which nonlinear response must be included. MOS, bipolar and BICMOS circuits, audio and video power amplifiers, optimum performance of near-sinusoidal oscillators and frequency-translation circuits. Phase-locked loop ICs, analog multipliers and voltage-controlled oscillators; advanced components for telecommunication circuits. Use of new CAD tools and systems.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced IC Processing and Layout Advanced IC Processing and Layout The key processes for the fabrication of integrated circuits. Optical, X-ray, and e-beam lithography, ion implantation, oxidation and diffusion. Thin film deposition. Wet and dry etching and ion milling. Effect of phase and defect equilibria on process control.
Electrical Engineering^Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization The modeling, analysis, and optimization of complex systems requires a range of algorithms and design software. This course reviews the fundamental techniques underlying the design methodology for complex systems, using integrated circuit design as example. Topics include design flows, discrete and continuous models and algorithms, and strategies for implementing algorithms efficiently and correctly in software. Laboratory assignments and a class project will expose students to state-of-the-art.
Electrical Engineering^Fundamental Algorithms for System Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization Fundamental Algorithms for System Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization The modeling, analysis, and optimization of complex systems require a range of algorithms and design tools. This course reviews the fundamental techniques underlying the design methodology for complex systems, using integrated circuit design as an example. Topics include design flows, discrete and continuous models and algorithms, and strategies for implementing algorithms efficiently and correctly in software.
Electrical Engineering^Parametric and Optimal Design of MEMS Parametric and Optimal Design of MEMS Parametric design and optimal design of MEMS. Emphasis on design, not fabrication. Analytic solution of MEMS design problems to determine the dimensions of MEMS structures for specified function. Trade-off of various performance requirements despite conflicting design requirements. Structures include flexure systems, accelerometers, and rate sensors.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) This course will teach fundamentals of micromachining and microfabrication techniques, including planar thin-film process technologies, photolithographic techniques, deposition and etching techniques, and the other technologies that are central to MEMS fabrication. It will pay special attention to teaching of fundamentals necessary for the design and analysis of devices and systems in mechanical, electrical, fluidic, and thermal energy/signal domains, and will teach basic techniques for multi-domain
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to MEMS Design Introduction to MEMS Design Physics, fabrication, and design of micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS). Micro and nanofabrication processes, including silicon surface and bulk micromachining and non-silicon micromachining. Integration strategies and assembly processes. Microsensor and microactuator devices: electrostatic, piezoresistive, piezoelectric, thermal, magnetic transduction. Electronic position-sensing circuits and electrical and mechanical noise. CAD for MEMS. Design project is required.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to MEMS Design Introduction to MEMS Design Physics, fabrication and design of micro electromechanical systems (MEMS). Micro and nano-fabrication processes, including silicon surface and bulk micromachining and non-silicon micromachining. Integration strategies and assembly processes. Microsensor and microactuator devices: electrostatic, piezoresistive, piezoelectric, thermal, and magnetic transduction. Electronic position-sensing circuits and electrical and mechanical noise. CAD for MEMS. Design project is required.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Embedded Systems Introduction to Embedded Systems This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.
Electrical Engineering^Embedded System Design: Modeling, Analysis, and Synthesis Embedded System Design: Modeling, Analysis, and Synthesis Principles of embedded system design. Focus on design methodologies and foundations. Platform-based design and communication-based design and their relationship with design time, re-use, and performance. Models of computation and their use in design capture, manipulation, verification, and synthesis. Mapping into architecture and systems platforms. Performance estimation. Scheduling and real-time requirements. Synchronous languages and time-triggered protocols to simplify the design process.
Electrical Engineering^Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Medical Imaging Signals and Systems Biomedical imaging is a clinically important application of engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and medicine. In this course, we apply linear systems theory and basic physics to analyze X-ray imaging, computerized tomography, nuclear medicine, and MRI. We cover the basic physics and instrumentation that characterizes medical image as an ideal perfect-resolution image blurred by an impulse response. This material could prepare the student for a career in designing new medical imaging systems
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Computer-Aided Design Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Computer-Aided Design The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Solid State Devices Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Solid State Devices The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Circuit Design Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Circuit Design The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Semiconductor Technology Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Semiconductor Technology The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Photonics Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Photonics The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in System Theory Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in System Theory The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Control Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Control The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Bioelectronics Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Bioelectronics The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Communication Networks Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Communication Networks The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Communications and Information Theory Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Communications and Information Theory The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Signal Processing Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Advanced Topics in Signal Processing The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Circuit Design Advanced Topics in Circuit Design Seminar-style course presenting an in-depth perspective on one specific domain of integrated circuit design. Most often, this will address an application space that has become particularly relevant in recent times. Examples are serial links, ultra low-power design, wireless transceiver design, etc.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Organic Materials in Electronics Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering: Organic Materials in Electronics Organic materials are seeing increasing application in electronics applications. This course will provide an overview of the properties of the major classes of organic materials with relevance to electronics. Students will study the technology, physics, and chemistry of their use in the three most rapidly growing major applications--energy conversion/generation devices (fuel cells and photovoltaics), organic light-emitting diodes, and organic transistors.
Electrical Engineering^Control and Optimization of Distributed Parameters Systems Control and Optimization of Distributed Parameters Systems Distributed systems and PDE models of physical phenomena (propagation of waves, network traffic, water distribution, fluid mechanics, electromagnetism, blood vessels, beams, road pavement, structures, etc.). Fundamental solution methods for PDEs: separation of variables, self-similar solutions, characteristics, numerical methods, spectral methods. Stability analysis. Adjoint-based optimization. Lyapunov stabilization. Differential flatness. Viability control. Hamilton-Jacobi-based control.
Electrical Engineering^Hybrid Systems and Intelligent Control Hybrid Systems and Intelligent Control Analysis of hybrid systems formed by the interaction of continuous time dynamics and discrete-event controllers. Discrete-event systems models and language descriptions. Finite-state machines and automata. Model verification and control of hybrid systems. Signal-to-symbol conversion and logic controllers. Adaptive, neural, and fuzzy-control systems. Applications to robotics and Intelligent Vehicle and Highway Systems (IVHS).
Electrical Engineering^Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Advanced study in various subjects through special seminars on topics to be selected each year, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.
Electrical Engineering^Individual Research Individual Research Investigation of problems in electrical engineering.
Electrical Engineering^Teaching Techniques for Electrical Engineering Teaching Techniques for Electrical Engineering Weekly seminars and discussions of effective teaching techniques. Use of educational objectives, alternative forms of instruction, and special techniques for teaching key concepts and techniques in electrical engineering. Student and self-evaluation. Course is intended to orient new graduate student instructors to teaching in the Electrical Engineering Department at Berkeley.
Computer Science^Introduction to Symbolic Programming Introduction to Symbolic Programming Introduction to computer programming, emphasizing symbolic computation and functional programming style. Students will write a project of at least 200 lines of code in Scheme (a dialect of the LISP programming language).
Computer Science^Introduction to Symbolic Programming (Self-Paced) Introduction to Symbolic Programming (Self-Paced) The same material as 3 but in a self-paced format; introduction to computer programming, emphasizing symbolic computation and functional programming style, using the Scheme programming language. Units assigned depend on amount of work completed. The first two units must be taken together.
Computer Science^Matlab for Programmers Matlab for Programmers Introduction to the constructs in the Matlab programming language, aimed at students who already know how to program. Array and matrix operations, functions and function handles, control flow, plotting and image manipulation, cell arrays and structures, and the Symbolic Mathematics toolbox.
Computer Science^C for Programmers C for Programmers Self-paced course in the C programming language for students who already know how to program. Computation, input and output, flow of control, functions, arrays, and pointers, linked structures, use of dynamic storage, and implementation of abstract data types.
Computer Science^Scheme and Functional Programming for Programmers Scheme and Functional Programming for Programmers Self-paced course in functional programming, using the Scheme programming language, for students who already know how to program. Recursion; higher-order functions; list processing; implementation of rule-based querying.
Computer Science^Productive Use of the UNIX Environment Productive Use of the UNIX Environment Use of UNIX utilities and scripting facilities for customizing the programming environment, organizing files (possibly in more than one computer account), implementing a personal database, reformatting text, and searching for online resources.
Computer Science^C++ for Programmers C++ for Programmers Self-paced introduction to the constructs provided in the C++ programming language for procedural and object-oriented programming, aimed at students who already know how to program.
Computer Science^JAVA for Programmers JAVA for Programmers Self-paced course in Java for students who already know how to program. Applets; variables and computation; events and flow of control; classes and objects; inheritance; GUI elements; applications; arrays, strings, files, and linked structures; exceptions; threads.
Computer Science^Python for Programmers Python for Programmers Introduction to the constructs provided in the Python programming language, aimed at students who already know how to program. Flow of control; strings, tuples, lists, and dictionaries; CGI programming; file input and output; object-oriented programming; GUI elements.
Computer Science^The Beauty and Joy of Computing The Beauty and Joy of Computing An introduction to the beauty and joy of computing. The history, social implications, great principles, and future of computing. Beautiful applications that have changed the world. How computing empowers discovery and progress in other fields. Relevance of computing to the student and society will be emphasized. Students will learn the joy of programming a computer using a friendly, graphical language, and will complete a substantial team programming project related to their interests.
Computer Science^The Beauty and Joy of Computing The Beauty and Joy of Computing This course meets the programming prerequisite for 61A. An introduction to the beauty and joy of computing. The history, social implications, great principles, and future of computing. Beautiful applications that have changed the world. How computing empowers discovery and progress in other fields. Relevance of computing to the student and society will be emphasized. Students will learn the joy of programming a computer using a friendly, graphical language, and will complete a substantial team programming
Computer Science^Completion of Work in Computer Science 61A Completion of Work in Computer Science 61A Implementation of generic operations. Streams and iterators. Implementation techniques for supporting functional, object-oriented, and constraint-based programming in the Scheme programming language. Together with 9D, 47A constitutes an abbreviated, self-paced version of 61A for students who have already taken a course equivalent to 61B.
Computer Science^Completion of Work in Computer Science 61B Completion of Work in Computer Science 61B Iterators. Hashing, applied to strings and multi-dimensional structures. Heaps. Storage management. Design and implementation of a program containing hundreds of lines of code. Students with sufficient partial credit in 61B may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit in this self-paced course.
Computer Science^Completion of Work in Computer Science 61C Completion of Work in Computer Science 61C MIPS instruction set simulation. The assembly and linking process. Caches and virtual memory. Pipelined computer organization. Students with sufficient partial credit in 61C may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit in this self-paced course.
Computer Science^The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs Introduction to programming and computer science. This course exposes students to techniques of abstraction at several levels: (a) within a programming language, using higher-order functions, manifest types, data-directed programming, and message-passing; (b) between programming languages, using functional and rule-based languages as examples. It also relates these techniques to the practical problems of implementation of languages and algorithms on a von Neumann machine. There are several significant
Computer Science^The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (Self-Paced) The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (Self-Paced) Introductory programming and computer science. Abstraction as means to control program complexity. Programming paradigms: functional, object-oriented, client/server, and declarative (logic). Control abstraction: recursion and higher order functions. Introduction to asymptotic analysis of algorithms. Data abstraction: abstract data types, type-tagged data, first class data types, sequences implemented as lists and as arrays, generic operators implemented with data-directed programming and with message
Computer Science^Data Structures Data Structures Fundamental dynamic data structures, including linear lists, queues, trees, and other linked structures; arrays strings, and hash tables. Storage management. Elementary principles of software engineering. Abstract data types. Algorithms for sorting and searching. Introduction to the Java programming language.
Computer Science^Data Structures and Programming Methodology Data Structures and Programming Methodology The same material as in 61B, but in a laboratory-based format.
Computer Science^Machine Structures Machine Structures The internal organization and operation of digital computers. Machine architecture, support for high-level languages (logic, arithmetic, instruction sequencing) and operating systems (I/O, interrupts, memory management, process switching). Elements of computer logic design. Tradeoffs involved in fundamental architectural design decisions.
Computer Science^Machine Structures (Lab-Centric) Machine Structures (Lab-Centric) The same material as in 61C but in a lab-centric format.
Computer Science^Discrete Mathematics and Probability Theory Discrete Mathematics and Probability Theory Logic, infinity, and induction; applications include undecidability and stable marriage problem. Modular arithmetic and GCDs; applications include primality testing and cryptography. Polynomials; examples include error correcting codes and interpolation. Probability including sample spaces, independence, random variables, law of large numbers; examples include load balancing, existence arguments, Bayesian inference.
Computer Science^Societal Risks and the Law Societal Risks and the Law Defining, perceiving, quantifying and measuring risk; identifying risks and estimating their importance; determining whether laws and regulations can protect us from these risks; examining how well existing laws work and how they could be improved; evaluting costs and benefits. Applications may vary by term. This course cannot be used to complete engineering unit or technical elective requirements for students in the College of Engineering.
Computer Science^Field Study Field Study Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.
Computer Science^Individual Study and Research for Undergraduates Individual Study and Research for Undergraduates A course for lower division students in good standing who wish to undertake a program of individual inquiry initiated jointly by the student and a professor. There are no other formal prerequisites, but the supervising professor must be convinced that the student is able to profit by the program.
Computer Science^Programmable Digital Systems Laboratory Programmable Digital Systems Laboratory Hardware description languages for digital system design and interactions with tool flows. Design, implementation, and verification of digital designs. Digital synthesis, partitioning, placement, routing, and simulation for Field-Programmable Gate Arrays. Large digital-system design concepts. Project design component – example, a full processor implementation with peripherals.
Computer Science^Introduction to Embedded Systems Introduction to Embedded Systems This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.
Computer Science^Components and Design Techniques for Digital Systems Components and Design Techniques for Digital Systems Basic building blocks and design methods to contruct synchronous digital systems, such as general purpose processors, hardware accelerators, and application specific processors. Representations and design methodologies for digital systems. Logic design using combinatorial and sequential circuits. Digital system implementation considering hardware descriptions languages, computer-aided design tools, field-programmable gate array architectures, and CMOS logic gates and state elements. Interfaces between
Computer Science^Computer Architecture and Engineering Computer Architecture and Engineering Instruction set architecture, microcoding, pipelining (simple and complex). Memory hierarchies and virtual memory. Processor parallelism: VLIW, vectors, multithreading. Multiprocessors.
Computer Science^User Interface Design and Development User Interface Design and Development The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.
Computer Science^Computer Security Computer Security Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems.
Computer Science^Operating Systems and System Programming Operating Systems and System Programming Basic concepts of operating systems and system programming. Utility programs, subsystems, multiple-program systems. Processes, interprocess communication, and synchronization. Memory allocation, segmentation, paging. Loading and linking, libraries. Resource allocation, scheduling, performance evaluation. File systems, storage devices, I/O systems. Protection, security, and privacy.
Computer Science^Programming Languages and Compilers Programming Languages and Compilers Survey of programming languages. The design of modern programming languages. Principles and techniques of scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, and code generation. Implementation of compilers, interpreters, and assemblers. Overview of run-time organization and error handling.
Computer Science^Introduction to the Internet: Architecture and Protocols Introduction to the Internet: Architecture and Protocols This course is an introduction to the Internet architecture. We will focus on the concepts and fundamental design principles that have contributed to the Internet's scalability and robustness and survey the various protocols and algorithms used within this architecture. Topics include layering, addressing, intradomain routing, interdomain routing, reliable delivery, congestion control, and the core protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP, IP, DNS, and HTTP) and network technologies (e.g., Ethernet, wireless).
Computer Science^Software Engineering Software Engineering Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Function-oriented and object-oriented modular design techniques, designing for re-use and maintainability. Specification and documentation. Verification and validation. Cost and quality metrics and estimation. Project team organization and management. Students will work in teams on a substantial programming project.
Computer Science^Efficient Algorithms and Intractable Problems Efficient Algorithms and Intractable Problems Concept and basic techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms; models of computation; lower bounds; algorithms for optimum search trees, balanced trees and UNION-FIND algorithms; numerical and algebraic algorithms; combinatorial algorithms. Turing machines, how to count steps, deterministic and nondeterministic Turing machines, NP-completeness. Unsolvable and intractable problems.
Computer Science^Computability and Complexity Computability and Complexity Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness.
Computer Science^Combinatorics and Discrete Probability Combinatorics and Discrete Probability Permutations, combinations, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, Ramsey theory. Expectation and variance, Chebychev's inequality, Chernov bounds. Birthday paradox, coupon collector's problem, Markov chains and entropy computations, universal hashing, random number generation, random graphs and probabilistic existence bounds.
Computer Science^Algorithms for Computational Biology Algorithms for Computational Biology Algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications: suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, genome rearrangements, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, stochastic context free grammars, RNA secondary structure. There are no biology prerequisites for this course, but a strong quantitative background will be essential.
Computer Science^Foundations of Computer Graphics Foundations of Computer Graphics Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. Algorithms
Computer Science^Introduction to Database Systems Introduction to Database Systems Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project.
Computer Science^Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. Topics include search, game playing, knowledge representation, inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning, robotics, perception, and language understanding.
Computer Science^Introduction to Machine Learning Introduction to Machine Learning Theoretical foundations, algorithms, methodologies, and applications for machine learning. Topics may include supervised methods for regression and classication (linear models, trees, neural networks, ensemble methods, instance-based methods); generative and discriminative probabilistic models; Bayesian parametric learning; density estimation and clustering; Bayesian networks; time series models; dimensionality reduction; programming projects covering a variety of real-world applications.
Computer Science^Quantum Information Science and Technology Quantum Information Science and Technology This multidisciplinary course provides an introduction to fundamental conceptual aspects of quantum mechanics from a computational and informational theoretic perspective, as well as physical implementations and technological applications of quantum information science. Basic sections of quantum algorithms, complexity, and cryptography, will be touched upon, as well as pertinent physical realizations from nanoscale science and engineering.
Computer Science^Social Implications of Computer Technology Social Implications of Computer Technology Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students will lead discussions on additional topics.
Computer Science^Honors Social Implications of Computer Technology Honors Social Implications of Computer Technology Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students may lead discussions on additional topics.
Computer Science^Senior Honors Thesis Research Senior Honors Thesis Research Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science
Computer Science^Senior Honors Thesis Research Senior Honors Thesis Research Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department archive. A total of four units must be taken. The units many be distributed between one or two semesters in any way. H196A-H196B count as graded technical elective units, but may not be used to satisfy the requirement for 27 upper division technical units in the College of Letters and Science
Computer Science^Field Study Field Study Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.
Computer Science^Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates Group study of selected topics in Computer Sciences, usually relating to new developments.
Computer Science^Concurrent Models of Computation Concurrent Models of Computation Theory and practice of concurrent models of computation (MoCs) with applications to software systems, embedded systems, and cyber-physical systems. Analysis for boundedness, deadlock, and determinacy; formal semantics (fixed point semantics and metric-space models); composition; heterogeneity; and model-based design. MoCs covered may include process networks, threads, message passing, synchronous/reactive, dataflow, rendezvous, time-triggered, discrete events, and continuous time.
Computer Science^Introduction to Embedded Systems Introduction to Embedded Systems This course introduces students to the basics of models, analysis tools, and control for embedded systems operating in real time. Students learn how to combine physical processes with computation. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.
Computer Science^VLSI Systems Design VLSI Systems Design Unified top-down and bottom-up design of integrated circuits and systems concentrating on architectural and topological issues. VLSI architectures, systolic arrays, self-timed systems. Trends in VLSI development. Physical limits. Tradeoffs in custom-design, standard cells, gate arrays. VLSI design tools.
Computer Science^Graduate Computer Architecture Graduate Computer Architecture Graduate survey of contemporary computer organizations covering: early systems, CPU design, instruction sets, control, processors, busses, ALU, memory, I/O interfaces, connection networks, virtual memory, pipelined computers, multiprocessors, and case studies. Term paper or project is required.
Computer Science^User Interface Design and Development User Interface Design and Development The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.
Computer Science^Human-Computer Interaction Research Human-Computer Interaction Research This course is a broad introduction to conducting research in Human-Computer Interaction. Students will become familiar with seminal and recent literature; learn to review and critique research papers; re-implement and evaluate important existing systems; and gain experience in conducting research. Topics include input devices, computer-supported cooperative work, crowdsourcing, design tools, evaluation methods, search and mobile interfaces, usable security, help and tutorial systems.
Computer Science^Security in Computer Systems Security in Computer Systems Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits.
Computer Science^Internet and Network Security Internet and Network Security Develops a thorough grounding in Internet and network security suitable for those interested in conducting research in the area or those more broadly interested in security or networking. Potential topics include denial-of-service; capabilities; network intrusion detection/prevention; worms; forensics; scanning; traffic analysis; legal issues; web attacks; anonymity; wireless and networked devices; honeypots; botnets; scams; underground economy; attacker infrastructure; research pitfalls.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Graduate survey of systems for managing computation and information, covering a breadth of topics: early systems; volatile memory management, including virtual memory and buffer management; persistent memory systems, including both file systems and transactional storage managers; storage metadata, physical vs. logical naming, schemas, process scheduling, threading and concurrency control; system support for networking, including remote procedure calls, transactional RPC, TCP, and active messages;
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Advanced Topics in Computer Systems Continued graduate survey of large-scale systems for managing information and computation. Topics include basic performance measurement; extensibility, with attention to protection, security, and management of abstract data types; index structures, including support for concurrency and recovery; parallelism, including parallel architectures, query processing and scheduling; distributed data management, including distributed and mobile file systems and databases; distributed caching; large-scale
Computer Science^Design of Programming Languages Design of Programming Languages Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness.
Computer Science^Implementation of Programming Languages Implementation of Programming Languages Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization. Storage management. Run-time organization.
Computer Science^Compiler Optimization and Code Generation Compiler Optimization and Code Generation Table-driven and retargetable code generators. Register management. Flow analysis and global optimization methods. Code optimization for advanced languages and architectures. Local code improvement. Optimization by program transformation. Selected additional topics. A term paper or project is required.
Computer Science^Applications of Parallel Computers Applications of Parallel Computers Models for parallel programming. Fundamental algorithms for linear algebra, sorting, FFT, etc. Survey of parallel machines and machine structures. Exiting parallel programming languages, vectorizing compilers, environments, libraries and toolboxes. Data partitioning techniques. Techniques for synchronization and load balancing. Detailed study and algorithm/program development of medium sized applications.
Computer Science^Computer Networks Computer Networks Distributed systems, their notivations, applications, and organization. The network component. Network architectures. Local and long-haul networks, technologies, and topologies. Data link, network, and transport protocols. Point-to-point and broadcast networks. Routing and congestion control. Higher-level protocols. Naming. Internetworking. Examples and case studies.
Computer Science^Combinatorial Algorithms and Data Structures Combinatorial Algorithms and Data Structures Design and analysis of efficient algorithms for combinatorial problems. Network flow theory, matching theory, matroid theory; augmenting-path algorithms; branch-and-bound algorithms; data structure techniques for efficient implementation of combinatorial algorithms; analysis of data structures; applications of data structure techniques to sorting, searching, and geometric problems.
Computer Science^Randomness and Computation Randomness and Computation Computational applications of randomness and computational theories of randomness. Approximate counting and uniform generation of combinatorial objects, rapid convergence of random walks on expander graphs, explicit construction of expander graphs, randomized reductions, Kolmogorov complexity, pseudo-random number generation, semi-random sources.
Computer Science^Foundations of Parallel Computation Foundations of Parallel Computation . Fundamental theoretical issues in designing parallel algorithms and architectures. Shared memory models of parallel computation. Parallel algorithms for linear algegra, sorting, Fourier Transform, recurrence evaluation, and graph problems. Interconnection network based models. Algorithm design techniques for networks like hypercubes, shuffle-exchanges, threes, meshes and butterfly networks. Systolic arrays and techniques for generating them. Message routing.
Computer Science^Computational Geometry Computational Geometry . Constructive problems in computational geometry: convex hulls, triangulations, Voronoi diagrams, arrangements of hyperplanes; relationships among these problems. Search problems: advanced data structures; subdivision search; various kinds of range searches. Models of computation; lower bounds.
Computer Science^Cryptography Cryptography Graduate survey of modern topics on theory, foundations, and applications of modern cryptography. One-way functions; pseudorandomness; encryption; authentication; public-key cryptosystems; notions of security. May also cover zero-knowledge proofs, multi-party cryptographic protocols, practical applications, and/or other topics, as time permits.
Computer Science^Computer Vision Computer Vision Paradigms for computational vision. Relation to human visual perception. Mathematical techniques for representing and reasoning, with curves, surfaces and volumes. Illumination and reflectance models. Color perception. Image segmentation and aggregation. Methods for bottom-up three dimensional shape recovery: Line drawing analysis, stereo, shading, motion, texture. Use of object models for prediction and recognition.
Computer Science^Statistical Learning Theory Statistical Learning Theory Classification regression, clustering, dimensionality, reduction, and density estimation. Mixture models, hierarchical models, factorial models, hidden Markov, and state space models, Markov properties, and recursive algorithms for general probabilistic inference nonparametric methods including decision trees, kernal methods, neural networks, and wavelets. Ensemble methods.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Learning and Decision Making Advanced Topics in Learning and Decision Making Recent topics include: Graphical models and approximate inference algorithms. Markov chain Monte Carlo, mean field and probability propagation methods. Model selection and stochastic realization. Bayesian information theoretic and structural risk minimization approaches. Markov decision processes and partially observable Markov decision processes. Reinforcement learning.
Computer Science^Foundations of Computer Graphics Foundations of Computer Graphics Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations.
Computer Science^Advanced Computer Graphics Algorithms and Techniques Advanced Computer Graphics Algorithms and Techniques This course provides a graduate-level introduction to advanced computer graphics algorithms and techniques. Students should already be familiar with basic concepts such as transformations, scan-conversion, scene graphs, shading, and light transport. Topics covered in this course include global illumination, mesh processing, subdivision surfaces, basic differential geometry, physically based animation, inverse kinematics, imaging and computational photography, and precomputed light transport.
Computer Science^Introduction to Database Systems Introduction to Database Systems Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project.
Computer Science^Implementation of Data Base Systems Implementation of Data Base Systems Implementation of data base systems on modern hardware systems. Considerations concerning operating system design, including buffering, page size, prefetching, etc. Query processing algorithms, design of crash recovery and concurrency control systems. Implementation of distributed data bases and data base machines.
Computer Science^Advanced Robotics Advanced Robotics Advanced topics related to current research in robotics. Planning and control issues for realistic robot systems, taking into account: dynamic constraints, control and sensing uncertainty, and non-holonomic motion constraints. Analysis of friction for assembly and grasping tasks. Sensing systems for hands including tactile and force sensing. Environmental perception from sparse sensors for dextrous hands. Grasp planning and manipulation.
Computer Science^Natural Language Processing Natural Language Processing Methods and models for the analysis of natural (human) language data. Topics include: language modeling, speech recognition, linguistic analysis (syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, reference resolution, discourse modeling), machine translation, information extraction, question answering, and computational linguistics techniques.
Computer Science^Introduction to Machine Learning Introduction to Machine Learning This course provides an introduction to theoretical foundations, algorithms, and methodologies for machine learning, emphasizing the role of probability and optimization and exploring a variety of real-world applications. Students are expected to have a solid foundation in calculus and linear algebra as well as exposure to the basic tools of logic and probability, and should be familiar with at least one modern, high-level programming language.
Computer Science^Interactive Device Design Interactive Device Design This course teaches concepts and skills required to design, prototype, and fabricate interactive devices -- that is, physical objects that intelligently respond to user input and enable new types of interactions.
Computer Science^Field Studies in Computer Science Field Studies in Computer Science Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering and/or computer science. Written report required at the end of the semester.
Computer Science^Group Studies Seminars, or Group Research Group Studies Seminars, or Group Research Advanced study in various subjects through seminars on topics to be selected each year, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.
Computer Science^Individual Research Individual Research Investigations of problems in computer science.
Computer Science^Designing Computer Science Education Designing Computer Science Education Discussion and review of research and practice relating to the teaching of computer science: knowledge organization and misconceptions, curriculum and topic organization, evaluation, collaborative learning, technology use, and administrative issues. As part of a semester-long project to design a computer science course, participants invent and refine a variety of homework and exam activities, and evaluate alternatives for textbooks, grading and other administrative policies, and innovative uses
Computer Science^Teaching Techniques for Computer Science Teaching Techniques for Computer Science Discussion and practice of techniques for effective teaching, focusing on issues most relevant to teaching assistants in computer science courses.
Computer Science^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Computer Science Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Computer Science Discussion, problem review and development, guidance of computer science laboratory sections, course development, supervised practice teaching.
Music^Reading and Writing about Music Reading and Writing about Music This course aims to help students improve their writing skills, taking a particular type of music as its central material. The goal of the course is to help students prepare for academic writing, develop analytical skills appropriate to the subject matter, and receive an introduction to college-level research papers. Depending on the topic the course may include a section of one to two hours for further listening to musical examples in a group setting.
Music^Basic Musicianship Basic Musicianship Fundamentals of music, including notation, sight singing, ear training, and beginning linear analysis. For general students.
Music^Basic Musicianship Basic Musicianship Fundamentals of music, including notation, sight singing, ear training, and beginning linear analysis. For general students.
Music^Introduction to Music Theory Introduction to Music Theory A writing course based on traditional harmony. Beginning linear and vertical analysis. For general students. Emphasis on written exercises.
Music^Introduction to Music Theory Introduction to Music Theory A writing course based on traditional harmony. Beginning linear and vertical analysis. For general students. Emphasis on written exercises.
Music^Music in American Culture Music in American Culture Two perspectives are developed: 1) diverse music of groups in America, and 2) American music as a unique phenomenon. Groups considered are African, Asian, European, Hispanic/Latino, and Native American. Lectures and musical examples are organized by topics such as music of socio-economic subgroups within large groups, survival of culture, pan-ethnicity, religious and concert music, and the folk-popular music continuum.
Music^Music in American Cultures Music in American Cultures Two perspectives are developed: 1) diverse music of groups in America, and 2) American music as a unique phenomenon. Groups considered are African, Asian, European, Hispanic/Latino, and Native American. Lectures and musical examples are religious and concert music, and the folk-popular music continuum.
Music^Introduction to Western Music Introduction to Western Music Devoted to the development of listening skills, and a survey of major forms and types of Western art music.
Music^Introduction to Western Music Introduction to Western Music Devoted to the development of listening skills, and a survey of major forms and types of Western art music.
Music^The Inner Workings of the Orchestra The Inner Workings of the Orchestra A seminar for lower division students. Instruments, the role of the conductor, major repertory, and a survey of the great orchestras and conductors of the world. Recordings, videos, and field trips to rehearsals or performances.
Music^Music Now Music Now This course explores the basic materials and models that set the boundaries for various present-day musical experiences. Students are exposed to terminology and modes of engagement with the aim of inspiring new paradigms of listening (e.g., listening to silence, noise, space, and timbre). Composers and musicians of today continue to explore new ways of defining and organizing sounds into music. The course focuses on the most adventurous music of our time, but the concepts learned can be applied
Music^Group Carillon Lessons for Beginning Students Group Carillon Lessons for Beginning Students A course designed for students who wish to attain a beginner's level of proficiency on the carillon. Prospective students must have a working knowledge of the keyboard, read treble and bass clefs fluently, be secure in key signatures through three sharps and flats, and be comfortable with common duple and triple meters.
Music^Private Carillon Lessons for Beginning Students Private Carillon Lessons for Beginning Students Private carillon lessons to develop a personal repertory. In this course, students will begin to learn different practice techniques.
Music^Private Carillon Lessons for Intermediate Students Private Carillon Lessons for Intermediate Students Private carillon lessons stressing musical questions and de-emphasizing technical and repertory issues. Composition and arranging may be included. Personal musicianship is examined and musical horizons are extended.
Music^Private Carillon Lessons for Advanced Students Private Carillon Lessons for Advanced Students This course is designed for students to reach an advanced level of proficiency. Students are required to play one ten-minute concert per week plus participate in the student recital.
Music^Carillon Lessons for Advanced Students Carillon Lessons for Advanced Students This course is a requirement for those students who are studying for examination by the Guild of Carillonneurs in North America.
Music^Introduction to Improvisation Introduction to Improvisation This course will serve as an introduction to performance practices in contemporary improvisation. Several approaches to improvising will be presented including African American jazz and blues traditions, North Indian Raga, gaming strategies, graphic notation, and conducted improvisation or "sound painting." Class activities will include improvisation exercises and games and repertoire development. Assignments will include listening to and analysis of recorded and live performances and
Music^Voice Class Voice Class Students will learn the fundaments of healthy singing. The classical style will be learned and applied to other styles of singing. Students will receive group instruction and individual feedback throughout the semester. Singers will perform two solos: one in English and one in a foreign language. The course is open to all undergraduates. Students involved in campus vocal ensembles are encouraged to enroll. No prior music experience required.
Music^Beginning Piano Class 1 for Non-Music Majors Beginning Piano Class 1 for Non-Music Majors Piano instruction includes music theory (musical notation, triads, scales and primary chords) at the keyboard. Repertoire draws from simple classical pieces and melodies accompanied with chords. Mastery of the material will be demonstrated at the keyboard and through three written assignments.  Weekly class attendance and daily practice (5 hours weekly) are expected.
Music^Thinking about Music Thinking about Music As a complement to Music 49B and 49C, this course introduces current and intending majors to perspectives that are central to the music major curriculum. It is organized around themes such as music and meaning, the relationship between written and aural transmission of music, and the interpretation of musical traditions, repertoires, and practices in relation to particular socio-historical contexts. Topics and musics to be studied vary by instuctor.
Music^Musicianship Musicianship Diatonic sight singing, ear training, and keyboard harmony.
Music^Harmony Harmony Diatonic harmony, chorale harmonization, and analytical studies. Emphasis on written exercises.
Music^Musicianship Musicianship Continuation of diatonic sight singing and ear training, introduction to chromatic sight singing, ear training, keyboard harmony, and score reading.
Music^Musicianship Musicianship Sight singing, ear training, keyboard harmony, and score reading involving increasing chromaticism.
Music^Harmony Harmony Advanced diatonic harmony, modulation, introduction to altered chords, chorale harmonization, and analytic studies. Emphasis on written exercises.
Music^Harmony Harmony Advanced diatonic harmony, advanced modulation, altered chords, chromatic harmony, and analytic studies. Emphasis on written exercises.
Music^African American Music African American Music Focus on a variety of musical practices both historical and contemporary, including popular and religious forms. Content will vary and may include genres such as blues, jazz, gospel, and hip-hop, explored with attention to race, gender, and the working of the music industry.
Music^Introduction to Selected Musics of the World Introduction to Selected Musics of the World Focus on performance practice, forms, styles, instruments, and meanings of particular musics from an ethnomusicological perspective. The musics to be studied vary; see offerings in the 130 series for specific course descriptions. Alternate lower division course numbering for lower division majors enrolling in the 130 series. This course will meet lower division major requirement.
Music^History of Western Music: Music to 1700 History of Western Music: Music to 1700 Studies in Medieval and Renaissance music. An introduction to music history and criticism, and practice in analytical methods for music of all periods, with emphasis on listening, exercises, and papers.
Music^History of Western Music: The 18th and 19th Centuries History of Western Music: The 18th and 19th Centuries Music of the 18th and 19th centuries. An introduction to music history and criticism, and practice in analytical methods for music of all periods, with emphasis on listening, exercises, and papers.
Music^History of Western Music: The 20th Century History of Western Music: The 20th Century Music of the 20th century.
Music^Field Studies Field Studies Department organized and supervised field programs involving experiences in tutoring and related activities. Students taking the course for the first time will be provided with training suitable to the subject matter being tutored.
Music^Directed Group Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Directed Group Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Group study in a field that may not coincide with that of any regular course. See the Introduction to Courses and Curricula section of the General Catalog for enrollment restrictions.
Music^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Music^Independent Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Independent Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Directed individual study in a field that may not coincide with that of any regular course. See the Introduction to Courses and Curricula section of the General Catalog for enrollment restrictions.
Music^New Music and the Arts New Music and the Arts A study of recent musical works from the 20th century to the present, emphasizing collaborations and influences from other art forms including poetry, dance, visual art, theater, and film.
Music^New Music and the Arts New Music and the Arts A study of recent musical works from the 20th century to the present, emphasizing collaborations and influences from other art forms including poetry, dance, visual art, theater, and film.
Music^Music Perception and Cognition Music Perception and Cognition A review of the sensory, perceptual, and cognitive foundations of listening, composing, and performing. Topics include relations among various acoustical and perceptual characterizations of sound; perception of pitch, temporal relations, timbre, stability conditions, and auditory space; auditory scene analysis and perceptual grouping mechanisms; perceptual principles for melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic organization; orchestration as spectral composition. A course research project is required.
Music^Music Perception and Cognition Music Perception and Cognition A review of the sensory, perceptual, and cognitive foundations of listening, performing, and composing. Topics include relations among various acoustical and perceptual characterizations of sound; perceptions of pitch, time, temporal relations, timbre, stability conditions, and auditory space; auditory scene analysis and perceptual grouping mechanisms; perceptual principles for melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic organization; orchestration as spectral composition. The course research project should
Music^Music Cognition: The Mind Behind the Musical Ear Music Cognition: The Mind Behind the Musical Ear The goal of this class is to interrogate and make explicit the powerful musical intuitions that are at work as you make sense of the music all around you. What is the nature of the knowledge that is guiding these intuitions? How does this knowledge develop in ordinary and extraordinary ways? To approach these questions, small composition-like projects aided by a specially designed computer music environment will function as a workplace. You will explore, experiment, question, and reflect on how
Music^Music Cognition: The Mind Behind the Musical Ear Music Cognition: The Mind Behind the Musical Ear The goal of this class is to interrogate and make explicit the powerful musical intuitions that are at work as you make sense of the music all around you. What is the nature of the knowledge that is guiding these intuitions? How does this knowledge develop in ordinary and extraordinary ways? To approach these questions, small composition-like projects aided by a specially designed computer music environment will function as a workplace.
Music^Jazz Theory and Performance 1 Jazz Theory and Performance 1 A systematic study of jazz theory including scales, chords, keyboard voicings, solo transcription, and tune study approached through playing, singing, listening, writing, improvization, analysis, and small ensemble playing.
Music^Jazz Theory and Performance 1 Jazz Theory and Performance 1 A systematic study of jazz theory including scales, chords, keyboard voicings, solo transcription, and tune study approached through playing, singing, listening, writing, improvization, analysis, and small ensemble playing.
Music^Jazz Theory and Performance 2 Jazz Theory and Performance 2 Advanced concepts in theory and performance in the jazz vernacular tradition, including melodic minor and diminished chords and scales, reharmonization,  changes, Coltrane changes, use of pentatonics and 4ths, playing outside, solo analysis, piano voicings, and an introduction to jazz arranging and composition. Activities will include short writing and playing exercises, transcription and analysis, historical and analytical readings, arranging and composition projects for small
Music^Jazz Theory and Performance 2 Jazz Theory and Performance 2 Advanced concepts in theory and performance in the jazz vernacular tradition, including melodic minor and diminished chords and scales, reharmonization,  changes, Coltrane changes, use of pentatonics and 4ths, playing outside, solo analysis, piano voicings, and an introduction to jazz arranging and composition. Activities will include short writing and playing exercises, transcription and analysis, historical and analytical readings, arranging and composition projects for small
Music^Jazz Theory and Performance 1 Jazz Theory and Performance 1 A systematic study of jazz theory including scales, chords, keyboard voicings, solo transcription, and tune study approached through playing, singing, listening, writing, improvization, analysis, and small ensemble playing.
Music^Topics in the History of European and American Music Topics in the History of European and American Music For non-majors. A comparative study of different genres and composers in western music. Topic will vary each semester.
Music^Opera Opera A study of musical and dramatic aspects of opera. Lectures on selected operas will be supplemented by assigned recordings and films or videotapes of notable performances.
Music^Opera Opera A study of musical and dramatic aspects of opera. Lectures on selected operas will be supplemented by assigned recordings and films or videotapes of notable performances. Analytical studies and a term paper required.
Music^Beethoven Beethoven This course is an introduction to Beethoven's music and its historical contexts. While closely analyzing individual works, this course also examines how Beethoven and his music have been represented and interpreted until our own day, exploring the values--musical and cultural--that have ensured Beethoven's towering position in Western music.
Music^Beethoven Beethoven This course is an introduction to Beethoven's music and its historical contexts. While closely analyzing individual works, this course also examines how Beethoven and his music have been represented and interpreted until our own day, exploring the values--musical and cultural--that have ensured Beethoven's towering position in Western music.
Music^Music and Meaning Music and Meaning This course will explore the question of whether music has meaning, and if so, what kind. Can music represent, say, birdsong, or the sea, or merely imitate? If music expresses emotions, then whose--those of the listener? The composer? The performer? We will consider parallels and contrasts between linguistic and musical meaning, theories of how music can be expressive, and the question of whether music can convey political meaning.
Music^J. S. Bach J. S. Bach An introduction to the music of J. S. Bach (1685-1750), a central figure in the history of Western Art Music. The course includes discussion of his organ music, harpsichord works, cantatas, Passion settings, and instrumental chamber music, discusses the relationship between Bach's biography and his compositions, and places study of the man and his music in its cultural and historical context. Required work will include one short paper and one longer paper. There will also be weekly reading and listening
Music^J. S. Bach J. S. Bach An introduction to the music of J. S. Bach (1685-1750), a central figure in the history of Western Art Music. The course includes discussion of his organ music, harpsichord works, cantatas, Passion settings, and instrumental chamber music, discusses the relationship between Bach's biography and his compositions, and places study of the man and his music in its cultural and historical context. Required work will include one medium-length paper, one longer research paper, and one analytical study.
Music^Symphonic Literature Symphonic Literature A survey of the major symphonic repertory from the Baroque period through modern times, with emphasis on the Classical and Romantic periods.
Music^Music and Meaning Music and Meaning This course will explore the question of whether music has meaning, and if so, what kind. Can music represent, say, birdsong, or the sea, or merely imitate? If music expresses emotions, then whose--those of the listener? The composer? The performer? We will consider parallels and contrasts between linguistic and musical meaning, theories of how music can be expressive, and the question of whether music can convey political meaning.
Music^The European/American Art Song The European/American Art Song A study of song and the interaction of poetry and music, from late 18th through the 20th century, with texts in English, German, French, and Russian in translation. Music by composers ranging from Mozart and Schubert to Gershwin and Bernstein will be included, with occasional live performances by local artists.
Music^Topics in Contemporary Improvised Music Topics in Contemporary Improvised Music Topic(s) in contemporary improvised music will be selected from among the following: innovations in jazz in the 1960s; further innovations in jazz in the 1970s; women in improvised music; improvisation, intermedia, and new technologies; the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (AACM); the phenomenon of the composer/performer/improviser in today's music; a global look at improvisation: fusion and hybrid forms. Please contact instructor for information on current topic(s).
Music^Topics in Contemporary Improvised Music Topics in Contemporary Improvised Music Topic(s) in contemporary improvised music will be selected from among the following: innovations in jazz in the 1960s; further innovations in jazz in the 1970s; women in improvised music; improvisation, intermedia, and new technologies; the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (AACM); the phenomenon of the composer/performer/improviser in today's music; a global look at improvisation: fusion and hybrid forms. Please contact instructor for information on current topic(s).
Music^The American Musical The American Musical A study of the American musical in the 20th century, beginning with its roots in operetta, vaudeville, and Gilbert and Sullivan, and focusing on its connections to politics, technology, film, opera, and a variety of musical styles, including Tin Pan Alley, jazz, and rock. We will consider a selection of shows through a series of theme units, including American mythologies (and counter-mythologies), race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, issues of fandom and performance of personal identity. For
Music^The American Musical The American Musical A study of the American musical in the 20th century, beginning with its roots in operetta, vaudeville, and Gilbert and Sullivan, and focusing on its connections to politics, technology, film, opera, and a variety of musical styles, including Tin Pan Alley, jazz, and rock. We will consider a selection of shows through a series of theme units, including American mythologies (and countermythologies), race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, issues of fandom, and performance of personal identity. For
Music^African American Music African American Music Historical and analytical study of African-American music in the 20th-century. Emphasis on the evolution of jazz and various forms of popular and religious music.
Music^African American Music African American Music Historical and analytical study of African-American music in the 20th-century. Emphasis on the evolution of jazz and various forms of popular and religious music.
Music^Music of the Middle East Music of the Middle East Music of the Middle East, including folk, art, popular, and religious music of the Pan-Islamic and Israeli traditions.
Music^Music of Southeast Asia Music of Southeast Asia Surveys the music of Indonesia (Java and Bali), Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, and the Philippines--cultures which share instrumental types but have developed distinctive musical types. Recommended that students also enroll in Javanese Gamelon.
Music^Music and Theater in Southeast Asia Music and Theater in Southeast Asia Surveys musical traditions of Indonesia and mainland Southeast Asia with special emphasis on Java and Bali and the central role of music in theater and dance in these countries.
Music^Music of Central Java Music of Central Java In-depth study of the Central Javanese gamelan tradition including performance contexts, repertoire, vocal and instrumental idioms, modal practice and improvisation in current practice and in historical perspective.
Music^Music of the East Asia Tradition Music of the East Asia Tradition Surveys the musics of China, Tibet, Korea, Vietnam, and Japan--cultures which share instrument types but have developed distinctive musical styles.
Music^Music of Japan Music of Japan Traditional classical music of Japan: Shinto ritual music, the imperial court orchestral music and dance, biwa and shakuhachi forms, chamber music for shamisen and koto, theatrical genres of kabuki and noh. Reading in music and pertinent Japanese literature in translation.
Music^Sonic Culture in China Sonic Culture in China This course explores the aesthetics and politics of sound - both musical and otherwise - in Chinese cultures. Through musical discourse and literary discourses on music, we trace the ways in which sound has been produced, heard, understood, and debated in both pre-modern and modern China. Topics include Confucian musical theory, Daoist hermeneutics, music, and poetry; the impact of recording technology and Western music; urban popular musics, sound and cinema, and contemporary soundscapes.
Music^Musics of the Caribbean Musics of the Caribbean Focus on the history, musical structure, and socio-political, economic, and cultural roles of selected traditional and popular music genres of the Caribbean.
Music^World Music: Power, Aesthetics, and Connections World Music: Power, Aesthetics, and Connections This course focuses on selected "world musics" to examine how, through their soundings, they make audible their entanglements with particular locales, times, and spaces. In focusing on their soundings, we will examine not only the music technologies they use, but also the diasporic connections they establish. Issues of power relations will be central to our exploration of how these musics circulate and what values (social, economic, and aesthetic) they have acquired on specific markets.
Music^Music of the Civil Rights Era Music of the Civil Rights Era Historical and political analysis of a variety of genres related to the New Social Movements of the mid-20th century. Includes African American, European American, Asian American, Latino, and Native American styles.
Music^Art and Activism Art and Activism This course explores the intersections between aesthetic practice and social change. Students will investigate—in both theory and practice—the capacity of art making to cultivate transformation of themselves, their relationships, their practices, their institutions, and the larger economic and socio-political structures in which they function, locally and globally. Focusing on historical and contemporary artists and political issues, we ask: 1) How is art impacted by social change? 2) How has art
Music^Topics in Musics of the World Topics in Musics of the World Surveys the music of different world cultures. The particular culture to be studied will vary.
Music^Javanese Gamelan Javanese Gamelan A performing course for the study and practice of Indonesian music and instruments.
Music^Javanese Gamelan Javanese Gamelan A performing course for the study and practice of Indonesian music and instruments.
Music^University Symphony Orchestra University Symphony Orchestra May be taken for credit or audited.
Music^University Wind Ensemble University Wind Ensemble A performing course for the study and practice of traditional and contemporary wind band repertoire.
Music^Gospel Chorus Gospel Chorus A course that will focus on the performance of choral music of the African American gospel music tradition with a particular emphasis on contemporary performance techniques. The Gospel Chorus, as is the case with other formal University music performance ensembles, will prepare music to be presented to the public in at least two concerts each semester. Students will be selected for the chorus on the basis of individual auditions.
Music^University Chorus University Chorus The University Chorus performs music primarily from the 17th to the 20th centuries including works for chorus and orchestra.
Music^University Chamber Chorus University Chamber Chorus A smaller mixed chorus that aims at a professional standard of ensemble singing and explores the lesser-known choral repertory.
Music^Balinese Gamelan Balinese Gamelan Learn to perform music suited to Balinese gamelan Semar Pagulingan, Pelegongan, Baleganjur, or Gender Wayang (emphasis may change from one semester to the next). Classes will consist of instruction on playing technique and memorization of pieces taught by ear, in the traditional Balinese manner. The course will culminate with a public performance.
Music^Contemporary Improvisation Ensemble Contemporary Improvisation Ensemble This is an intermediate-advanced repertoire ensemble performing music that incorporates experimental practices in contemporary improvised music, encompassing several styles of music and a variety of approaches. We will work on traditionally notated scores as well as graphic notation and other structures. We will also look at game pieces such as John Zorn's Cobra, pieces by the graduate composers, and music using various conducting techniques for focusing ensembles of improvisers. All instruments
Music^African Music Ensemble African Music Ensemble Performance of West African music with particular emphasis on the music of Ghana. Practical instruction in traditional instrumental and vocal techniques.
Music^African Music Ensemble African Music Ensemble Performance of West African music with particular emphasis on the music of Ghana. Practical instruction in traditional instrumental and vocal techniques.
Music^University Baroque Ensemble University Baroque Ensemble Performance of Renaissance and Baroque music for voices and instruments.
Music^Instrumental Performance Instrumental Performance By audition, for experienced performers of orchestral instruments. A directed program of study including participation in the University Symphony or other department-sponsored ensembles, in workshops, and in special projects. Will include instruction and/or coaching, individually or in groups. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance.
Music^Vocal Performance Vocal Performance By audition for experienced vocalists. A comprehensive program of vocal studies including participation in University Choruses, vocal technique training, and ensemble work with other instrumentalists or vocalists. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance.
Music^Keyboard Performance Keyboard Performance The program will focus on the study of solo repertoire. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance.
Music^Various Musical Practices Performance Various Musical Practices Performance By audition. Intermediate or advanced instruction in musical practices not encompassed in 150A-150B-150C, within the context of a directed academic program of studies. Students must have experience on the instrument or have studied it in the 130 series. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance.
Music^Jazz Performance Jazz Performance Intermediate or advanced instruction in the performance of jazz and improvisation. A directed program of study including participation in department-sponsored or UC Jazz ensembles, workshops, and special projects where applicable. Will include instruction and/or coaching, individually or in groups. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Units range from 1 to 3, depending
Music^Guitar Performance Guitar Performance The program will include ensemble work in addition to the study of solo repertoire. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance.
Music^Early Music Performance Early Music Performance The program will include ensemble work in addition to the study of solo repertoire. The student's program will be worked out in consultation with the faculty in charge of the course. Each student's studies will lead to some kind of public performance.
Music^Twentieth-Century Harmony Twentieth-Century Harmony Advanced chromatic harmony, early 20th-century harmony, and analytic studies. Emphasis on written exercises.
Music^Advanced Musicianship Advanced Musicianship Continuation of the skills acquired in prerequisite courses, with an emphasis on score reading skills (including use of the voice) and the realization of Baroque figured bass lines. Increased emphasis on 20th-century and contemporary practice.
Music^Counterpoint Counterpoint A study of species counterpoint. Regular exercises in two and three voices required. Group discussion and analysis.
Music^Counterpoint Counterpoint A study of 18th-century counterpoint. Regular exercises required. Analysis of chorale preludes, two- and three-part inventions, canons, and fugue expositions.
Music^Music Composition Music Composition A study of formal problems using contemporary composition techniques.
Music^Studies in Musical Analysis Studies in Musical Analysis The study of various analytical techniques and their application to important works of music.
Music^Orchestration Orchestration A study of instrumentation--the construction capabilities and idiomatic qualities of all of the individual instruments which comprise the contemporary symphony orchestra followed by a study of the 18th-, 19th-, and 20th-century orchestrational technique. Analysis of scores and assignments in scoring of selected instrumental combinations.
Music^Orchestration Orchestration A study of instrumentation--the construction capabilities and idiomatic qualities of all of the individual instruments which comprise the contemporary symphony orchestra followed by a study of the 18th-, 19th-, and 20th-century orchestrational technique. Analysis of scores and assignments in scoring of selected instrumental combinations.
Music^Musical Applications of Computers and Related Technologies Musical Applications of Computers and Related Technologies Basic concepts and techniques of computer-based music research, composition, and performance. Essentials of digital audio signal processing, musical acoustics and psychoacoustics, sound analysis and synthesis, musical databases, use of MIDI, computer programming for music, and computer-aided music analysis. Works from the computer music repertoire will be examined.
Music^Computer Programming for Music Applications Computer Programming for Music Applications Software engineering for musical applications covering programming concepts for live-performance real-time systems as well as cloud-based music information retrieval applications. Topics include the software representation of sound and music, real-time scheduling, analysis of gestures from systems of sensors, common design patterns, analysis and controlled synthesis, and machine learning applications for music understanding and creation. Behavior driven design and test driven development are core
Music^Instrumental Conducting Instrumental Conducting A study of the basic elements of conducting: physical gesture, score reading, and score analysis. Development of skills with emphasis on conducting and rehearsal techniques applicable to orchestral literature in various languages and musical styles. Preparation of selected works for rehearsal and performance in class. Should be taken in a two-semester sequence.
Music^Instrumental Conducting Instrumental Conducting A study of the basic elements of conducting: physical gesture, score reading, and score analysis. Development of skills with emphasis on conducting and rehearsal techniques applicable to orchestral literature in various languages and musical styles. Preparation of selected works for rehearsal and performance in class. Should be taken in a two-semester sequence.
Music^Choral Conducting Choral Conducting Continued development of skills introduced in 160 with emphasis on conducting and rehearsal techniques applicable to choral literature in various languages and musical styles. Preparation of selected works for rehearsal and performance in class.
Music^Workshop in Choral Conducting Workshop in Choral Conducting Daily classies in conducting technique and rehearsal technique, supplemented by sessions on various topics in conducting presented by guest speakers from the Bay Area music community. Technique classes will be offered at beginning and advanced levels. Advance consultation on placement recommended: contact Professor Kuzma in the Music Department.
Music^Current Trends in Jazz and Improvisation-Based Musics--A Performance Workshop Current Trends in Jazz and Improvisation-Based Musics--A Performance Workshop This is an intermediate-advanced level performance workshop in jazz-based improvisational music. Class participants will perform pieces from innovative jazz artists of the 60s and 70s up through and including music by contemporary composer/performer/improvisers who have come out of the jazz tradition. Course will also cover related theory and musicianship skills that enable the performer to improvise in this idiom.
Music^Berkeley Nu Jazz Collective Berkeley Nu Jazz Collective This advanced small ensemble of improvisers (The Berkeley Nu Jazz Collective) will explore a range of repertoire including music by innovative jazz composers of the 1960s and 70s, as well as contemporary works and original student compositions and arrangements. Students will be expected to practice, compose, and arrange music for the bi-weekly rehearsals outside of class time, and will be given individual guidance on composing and arranging by appointment.
Music^The Performance of Baroque Music The Performance of Baroque Music A study of music from ca. 1600-1750 with emphasis upon performance practices and styles.
Music^Topics in History, Culture, and Analysis Topics in History, Culture, and Analysis A seminar for upper division music majors. Topics will change each semester but will always represent a fairly narrow focus on a single issue in the history, interpretation, or social meaning of music. The course provides students with an opportunity to go deeply into one subject, to discuss their ideas in a seminar setting, and to carry out a substantial independent research project.
Music^Topics in Research and Performance Topics in Research and Performance A seminar for upper division music majors. The primary purpose of this course is to create an environment in which students can combine the research and analysis of music with live performance. The specific topic covered will change each semester. Class time will be divided equally among (1) historical and analytical readings; (2) discussion and analysis of recorded and live performances; (3) in-class performance. The final project will combine scholarly work and performance in the form of a lecture-recital
Music^Special Study for Honors Candidates in Music Special Study for Honors Candidates in Music Individual tutorials leading to the completion of a special honors project.
Music^Field Studies Field Studies Department organized and supervised field programs involving experiences in tutoring and related activities. Students taking the course for the first time will be provided with training suitable to the subject matter being tutored.
Music^Group Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates Group Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates Not to serve in lieu of regular courses of instruction.
Music^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Music^Music Scholarship I Music Scholarship I Principles of music bibliography, techniques of library research, history of music printing and publishing. Presentation of results in written and oral forms. Students in Ethnomusicology will take the first half of the course for 2 units. Students in History and Literature will take the entire course for 4 units.
Music^Introduction to Music Scholarship II Introduction to Music Scholarship II Principles and methods of scholarly research in Western art music, especially history and criticism of music; use of documents, and design of projects. Presentation of results in written and oral forms.
Music^Introduction to Music Scholarship III Introduction to Music Scholarship III Introduction to issues and methods in ethnomusicology, from the perspectives of both the social sciences and music. Presentation of results in written and oral forms.
Music^Proseminar in Computer Music Proseminar in Computer Music Overview of the field of computer music and its application to music composition. Practices, procedures, and aesthetics related to the application of newer technologies to music composition will be covered in tandem with contemporary research topics in computer music. Recent computer music repertoire with its related technologies will be examined. Students in this proseminar must have advanced musical training and knowledge of the history and repertoire of electro-acoustic music.
Music^Seminar in Contemporary Music Seminar in Contemporary Music Studies in 20th-century music.
Music^Seminar in Composition Seminar in Composition A study of relevant problems and compositional techniques of contemporary music. Original compositions required of students. Group discussion and criticism.
Music^Studies in Musical Analysis Studies in Musical Analysis The application of analytical principles to a group of compositions and the intensive study of at least one major work.
Music^Advanced Projects in Computer Music Advanced Projects in Computer Music Designed for graduate students in music composition, but open to graduate students in related disciplines who can demonstrate thorough knowledge of the history of electro-acoustic music as well as significant experience with computer music practice and research. All projects are subject to approval of the instructor.
Music^Advanced Music Perception and Cognition Advanced Music Perception and Cognition Experimental studies in Music Perception and Cognition. Research projects required.
Music^Music in Mind Music in Mind Research seminar dealing with "what goes on in your mind" when you make music. Topics include conceptualization, processes of learning, retention, and recall. In the context of interaction among musicians, variation and other forms of alteration (from relatively free improvisation to formulaic recomposition) with varing degrees of intentionality manifested in performances will be considered. Perception is implicated, but not a central issue.
Music^Advanced Topics in Computer Music Advanced Topics in Computer Music Technical and musical issues in the design and development of computer-based music systems including digital signal processing for the analysis and synthesis of sound, scheduling of multiple musical control processes, perceptual and cognitive models, user-interface design, reactive real-time control, and the analysis and representation of musical structure.
Music^Graduate Seminar: Composers and Improvisers Workshop Graduate Seminar: Composers and Improvisers Workshop This course will provide a weekly forum for the exploration of strategies for composing for improvisers and improvising for composers, culminating in the presentation of new work. A number of approaches including gaming strategies, graphic and alternative notation systems, conduction, and other topics of interest to the students will be explored through performance, listening, analysis, and discussion.
Music^Seminar: Studies in Romantic Music Seminar: Studies in Romantic Music A highly specialized study in Romantic music. The topic will change each time the course is offered.
Music^Seminar: Jazz Seminar: Jazz A highly specialized study of Jazz. The topic will change each time the course is offered.
Music^Topics in Music History and Criticism Topics in Music History and Criticism A specialized course in musical criticism. The topic will change each time the course is offered.
Music^Topics in Performance Studies Topics in Performance Studies Critical survey of performance theory as it relates to music. Readings combine key foundational texts with current scholarly works from disciplines including ethnomusicology, musicology, performance studies, anthropology, and cultural studies.
Music^Readings in American Musical Cultures Readings in American Musical Cultures Study of selected American musical cultures in relation to issues and theories pertinent to them.
Music^Transcription and Analysis in Ethnomusicology Transcription and Analysis in Ethnomusicology Methods and practice of transcription applied to selected musical practices in relation to specific analytical goals. Coursework includes use of software for sound analysis and notation.
Music^Tools of Ethnomusicological Research Tools of Ethnomusicological Research Collection and organization of research data. Introduction to audio and video recording, photography, database design, interviewing, and writing fieldnotes.
Music^Research Design for Ethnomusicologists Research Design for Ethnomusicologists Instruction in designing a doctoral research project, writing a dissertation prospectus, and formulating a grant proposal. Focus also on issues such as representation and ethics. Students will normally take this course one semester prior to presenting the prospectus for their doctoral dissertation.
Music^Theory and Method in Popular Music Studies Theory and Method in Popular Music Studies Critical survey of the major issues raised and methodologies used in the study of popular music. Selected readings from a wide range of disciplines, including sociology, anthropology, musicology, ethnomusicology, communication, history, political science, economics, and music journalism.
Music^Topics in Ethnomusicology Topics in Ethnomusicology A highly specialized course in ethnomusicology. The topic will change each time the course is offered.
Music^Topics in Asian Music Topics in Asian Music A highly specialized course focusing on aspects of music in Asia. The topic will change each time the course is offered.
Music^Interpretive Theories and Music Interpretive Theories and Music Readings on interpretive theories dealing with issues such as aesthetics, identity formation, and politics of representation, from the multiple disciplines informing the study of music. The selection of theoretical writings will change each time the course is offered.
Music^Advanced Ethnomusicological Studies Advanced Ethnomusicological Studies Forum for advanced work in students' areas of specialization, with particular emphasis on addressing the integration of musical analysis with theoretical issues. Students set specific goals with faculty and meet as needed individually and as a group.
Music^Musical Applications of Computers and Related Technologies Musical Applications of Computers and Related Technologies This course is about digital sound. Specifically, it is about music created with digital sounds. As we explore music with a computational frame of mind, we will approach each topic with explicit expectations of artistic and musical applications. Topics in psychoacoustics, music perception and cognition will be introduced to facilitate our understanding of digital manipulations and their role in the shaping of the musical experience.
Music^Colloquium Colloquium Meetings for the presentation of original work by faculty, visiting lecturers, and advanced graduate students. Assigned readings. In rotation members of the class will be appointed as respondents for the papers.
Music^Directed Dissertation Research - Music Directed Dissertation Research - Music Open to qualified students who have been advanced to candidacy for the Ph.D. and are directly engaged upon the doctoral dissertation.
Music^Group Special Studies Group Special Studies Open to qualified students for research or creative work on a particular topic. Not to serve in lieu of regular courses of instruction.
Music^Special Study Special Study Open to properly qualified graduate students for research or creative work, including work on the doctoral dissertation. Such work shall not serve in lieu of regular courses of instruction.
Music^Special Study Special Study Open to properly qualified graduate students for research or creative work, including work on the doctoral dissertation. Such work shall not serve in lieu of regular courses of instruction.
Music^Professional Preparation for Teaching Assistants in Music Professional Preparation for Teaching Assistants in Music Special study under the direction of a staff member with emphasis on the teaching of undergraduate courses in music.
Music^Elementary Piano Elementary Piano Two semesters are strongly recommended for music majors who lack the basic keyboard skills needed for musicianship and harmony classes.
Music^Vocal Technique Vocal Technique A course in basic vocal techniques, primarily for students in the University Choruses, covering techniques of breathing, pronunciation, and articulation.
Music^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Preparation for the comprehensive or language requirements in consultation with the field adviser.
Astronomy^Introduction to Modern Cosmology Introduction to Modern Cosmology Description of research and results in modern extragalactic astronomy and cosmology. We read the stories of discoveries of the principles of our Universe. Simple algebra is used.
Astronomy^Introduction to Astrophysics Introduction to Astrophysics This is the first part of an overview of astrophysics, with an emphasis on the way in which physics is applied to astronomy. This course deals with the solar system and stars, while 7B covers galaxies and cosmology. Solar system topics include orbital mechanics, geology of terrestrial planets, planetary atmospheres, and the formation of the solar system. The study of stars will treat determination of observations, properties and stellar structure, and evolution. The physics in this course includes
Astronomy^Introduction to Astrophysics Introduction to Astrophysics This is the second part of an overview of astrophysics, which begins with 7A. This course covers the Milky Way galaxy, star formation and the interstellar medium, galaxies, black holes, quasars, dark matter, the expansion of the universe and its large-scale structure, and cosmology and the Big Bang. The physics in this course includes that used in 7A (mechanics and gravitation; kinetic theory of gases; properties of radiation and radiative energy transport; quantum mechanics of photons, atoms, and
Astronomy^Selected Topics in Astronomy Selected Topics in Astronomy This seminar will explore one of a variety of subjects in greater depth than in introductory courses. Possible topics include stars, galaxies, the solar system, the interstellar medium, relativity and cosmology, history of astronomy, observational astronomy, and life in the universe.
Astronomy^Introduction to General Astronomy Introduction to General Astronomy A description of modern astronomy with emphasis on the structure and evolution of stars, galaxies, and the Universe. Additional topics optionally discussed include quasars, pulsars, black holes, and extraterrestrial communication, etc. Individual instructor's synopses available from the department.
Astronomy^Introduction to General Astronomy Introduction to General Astronomy A description of modern astronomy with emphasis on the structure and evolution of stars, galaxies, and the Universe. Additional topics optionally discussed include quasars, pulsars, black holes, and extraterrestrial communication, etc. Individual instructor's synopses available from the department.
Astronomy^Introduction to General Astronomy Introduction to General Astronomy The nature and evolution of the universe: history of astronomical knowledge; overall structure of the universe; galaxies, radio galaxies, peculiar galaxies, and quasars; structure and evolution of stars; exploding stars, pulsars, and black holes; exploration of the solar system; the search for extraterrestrial life.
Astronomy^The Planets The Planets A tour of the mysteries and inner workings of our solar system. What are planets made of? Why do they orbit the sun the way they do? How do planets form, and what are they made of? Why do some bizarre moons have oceans, volcanoes, and ice floes? What makes the Earth hospitable for life? Is the Earth a common type of planet or some cosmic quirk? This course will introduce basic physics, chemistry, and math to understand planets, moons, rings, comets, asteroids, atmospheres, and oceans. Understanding
Astronomy^The Planets The Planets A tour of the mysteries and inner workings of our solar system. What are planets made of? Why do they orbit the sun the way they do? How do planets form, and what are they made of? Why do some bizarre moons have oceans, volcanoes, and ice floes? What makes the Earth hospitable for life? Is the Earth a common type of planet or some cosmic quirk? This course will introduce basic physics, chemistry, and math to understand planets, moons, rings, comets, asteroids, atmospheres, and oceans. Understanding
Astronomy^Origins: from the Big Bang to the Emergence of Humans Origins: from the Big Bang to the Emergence of Humans This course will cover our modern scientific understanding of origins, from the Big Bang to the formation of planets like Earth, evolution by natural selection, the genetic basis of evolution, and the emergence of humans. These ideas are of great intrinsic scientific importance and also have far reaching implications for other aspects of people's lives (e.g., philosophical, religious, and political). A major theme will be the scientific method and how we know what we know.
Astronomy^Directed Study in Astronomy Directed Study in Astronomy Supervised observational studies or directed reading for lower division students.
Astronomy^Optical and Infrared Astronomy Laboratory Optical and Infrared Astronomy Laboratory This course requires four to six experiments such as the following: accurate position and brightness measurements of stars; laboratory exploration of the characteristics of two-dimensional charge-coupled devices (CCDs) and infrared detectors; measurement of the distance, reddening, and age of a star cluster; measurement of the Stokes parameters and linear polarization of diffuse synchrotron and reflection nebulae; measurement of the period and pulse shape of the Crab pulsar using Fourier techniques.
Astronomy^Radio Astronomy Laboratory Radio Astronomy Laboratory Several basic laboratory experiments that concentrate on microwave electronics and techniques; construction of receiving, observing, and data analysis systems for two radioastronomical telescopes, a single-dish 21-cm line system and a 12-GHz interferometer; use of these telescopes for astronomical observing projects including structure of the Milky Way galaxy, precise position measurement of several radio sources, and measurement of the radio brightness distributions of the sun and moon with high
Astronomy^Stellar Physics Stellar Physics Topics covered include some, but not necessarily all, of the following. Observational constraints on the properties and evolution of stars. Theory of stellar structure and evolution. Stellar atmospheres and stellar spectroscopy. Stellar nucleosynthesis. Supernovae. Degeneracy of matter and structure of collapsed stars. Elements of gas dynamics, accretion onto compact objects, and x-ray sources. Dynamics and evolution of close binary systems. Stellar pulsation.
Astronomy^Relativistic Astrophysics and Cosmology Relativistic Astrophysics and Cosmology Elements of general relativity. Physics of pulsars, cosmic rays, black holes. The cosmological distance scale, elementary cosmological models, properties of galaxies and quasars. The mass density and age of the universe. Evidence for dark matter and dark energy and concepts of the early universe and of galaxy formation. Reflections on astrophysics as a probe of the extrema of physics.
Astronomy^Planetary Astrophysics Planetary Astrophysics Physics of planetary systems, both solar and extra-solar. Star and planet formation, radioactive dating, small-body dynamics and interaction of radiation with matter, tides, planetary interiors, atmospheres, and magnetospheres. High-quality oral presentations may be required in addition to problem sets and a final exam.
Astronomy^Special Study for Honors Candidates Special Study for Honors Candidates Individual project of research or study.
Astronomy^Radiation Processes in Astronomy Radiation Processes in Astronomy An introduction to the basic physics of astronomy and astrophysics at the graduate level. Principles of energy transfer by radiation. Elements of classical and quantum theory of photon emission; bremsstrahlung, cyclotron and synchrotron radiation. Compton scattering, atomic, molecular and nuclear electromagnetic transitions. Collisional excitation of atoms, molecules and nuclei.
Astronomy^Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics Principles of gas dynamics, self-gravitating fluids, magnetohydrodynamics and elementary kinetic theory. Aspects of convection, fluid oscillations, linear instabilities, spiral density waves, shock waves, turbulence, accretion disks, stellar winds, and jets.
Astronomy^Astrophysical Techniques Astrophysical Techniques Introduction to the flow of astronomical signals through telescope optics and into detectors; subsequent calibration, deconvolution of instrumental artifacts, and analysis. A broad wavelength approach is maintained with focus on shared fundamental concepts. Students "adopt a wavelength band" for assignments and presentations. Analysis and simulation of astronomical signals, noise, and errors.
Astronomy^Numerical Techniques in Astronomy Numerical Techniques in Astronomy Methods of data analysis, model fitting, and data display, all oriented towards the detailed analysis of astronomical observation data and/or numerical results from simulations. Specific topics include probability density functions, error propagation, maximum likelihood, least squares, data and function fitting, Fourier transforms, wavelets, principal components analysis, color images. The software language used is the Interactive Data Language (IDL).
Astronomy^Radiation Processes in Astronomy Radiation Processes in Astronomy An introduction to the basic physics of astronomy and astrophysics at the graduate level. Principles of energy transfer by radiation. Elements of classical and quantum theory of photon emission; bremsstrahlung, cyclotron and synchrotron radiation. Compton scattering, atomic, molecular and nuclear electromagnetic transitions. Collisional excitation of atoms, molecules and nuclei.
Astronomy^Interstellar Matter Interstellar Matter A survey of the observational data and theoretical ideas on the interstellar medium, with emphasis on the inferred physical conditions.
Astronomy^Stellar Dynamics and Galactic Structure Stellar Dynamics and Galactic Structure A basic course. Structure and kinematics of the galaxy; stellar population concepts; dynamics of stellar systems with and without encounters.
Astronomy^Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology A survey of physical cosmology - the study of the origin, evolution, and fate of the universe. Topics include the Friedmann-Robertson-Walker model, thermal history and big bang nucleosynthesis, evidence and nature of dark matter and dark energy, the formation and growth of galaxies and large scale structure, the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave radiation, inflation in the early universe, tests of cosmological models, and current research areas. The course complements the material of Astronomy
Astronomy^Solar System Astrophysics Solar System Astrophysics The physical foundations of planetary sciences. Topics include planetary interiors and surfaces, planetary atmospheres and magnetospheres, and smaller bodies in our solar system. The physical processes at work are developed in some detail, and an evolutionary picture for our solar system, and each class of objects, is developed. Some discussion of other (potential) planetary systems is also included.
Astronomy^Special Topics in Astrophysics Special Topics in Astrophysics Topics will vary from semester to semester. See department for announcements.
Astronomy^Stellar Structure and Evolution Stellar Structure and Evolution Equations of stellar structure, radiative transfer and convection, thermonuclear reactions and stellar energy generations; stellar models, degenerate configurations, evolutionary sequences, supernovae, neutron stars, black holes, nucleosynthesis.
Astronomy^High Energy Astrophysics High Energy Astrophysics Basic physics of high energy radiation processes in an astrophysics environment. Cosmic ray production and propagation. Applications selected from pulsars, x-ray sources, supernovae, interstellar medium, extragalactic radio sources, quasars, and big-bang cosmologies.
Astronomy^Computational Methods in Theoretical Astrophysics Computational Methods in Theoretical Astrophysics A broad in-depth survey of state-of-the-art numerical approaches to astrophysical self-gravitational gas dynamics with application to large scale simulation of coupled non-linear astrophysical flows. Finite-difference approaches for Lagrangian and Eulerian astrophysical hydrodynamics and coupled radiation-hydrodynamics. N-body gravitation techniques including direct N-body, P-M, P3M, and hierarchical Tree. Particle gas dynamics methods such as smooth particle hydrodynamics (SPH), adaptive SPH and
Astronomy^Theoretical Astrophysics Seminar Theoretical Astrophysics Seminar The study of theoretical astrophysics.
Astronomy^Planetary Science Seminar Planetary Science Seminar The departments of Astronomy and Earth and Planetary Science offer a joint research seminar in advanced topics in planetary science, featuring speakers drawn from graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, faculty, and visiting scholars. Topics will span planetary interiors; surface morphology; atmospheres; dynamics; planet formation; and astrobiology. Speakers will vary from semester to semester. Meetings will be held once a week for 1 hour each, and the schedule of speakers will be determined
Astronomy^Undergraduate Astronomy Instruction Undergraduate Astronomy Instruction Open to a limited number of highly qualified undergraduate students interested in astronomy teaching at the college level. Students will participate in a seminar on educational methods and engage in tutorial or laboratory teaching under supervision of a faculty member.
Astronomy^Instruction Techniques in General Astronomy Instruction Techniques in General Astronomy Discussion and practice of teaching techniques as applied to astronomy. Open to graduate students who are presently teaching assistants or associates. Two units for course plus one section; three units for two discussion sections.
Sociology^Introduction to Sociology Introduction to Sociology Introduces students who are considering majoring in sociology to the basic topics, concepts, and principles of the study of society. This course is required for the major; 1 or any version of 3 is prerequisite for other sociology classes; students not considering a sociology major are directed to any version of 3 or 3AC.
Sociology^Principles of Sociology: American Cultures Principles of Sociology: American Cultures Comparing the experience of three out of five ethnic groups (e.g. African Americans, Asian Americans, Chicano/Latino, European Americans, and Native Americans) we shall examine historically how each people entered American society and built communities and transformed their cultures in the process. Students will be introduced to the sociological perspective, characteristic methods of research, and such key concepts as culture, community, class, race, social change, and social movements.
Sociology^Evaluation of Evidence Evaluation of Evidence A review of methodological problems in assessing data relating to social life. Topics to be covered include: posing a sociological problem, gaining access to data, measuring, establishing correlation and causal connection among data, and relating data to theoretical context.
Sociology^The Power of Numbers: Quantitative Data in Social Sciences The Power of Numbers: Quantitative Data in Social Sciences This course will provide students with a set of skills to understand, evaluate, use, and produce quantitative data about the social world. It is intended specifically for social science majors, and focuses on social science questions. Students will learn to: produce basic graphs, find good-quality and relevant data on the web, manipulate data in a spreadsheet, including producing pivot tables, understand and calculate basic statistical measures of central tendency, variation, and correlation, understand
Sociology^Directed Group Study Berkeley Connect Directed Group Study Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Sociology^Sociological Theory I Sociological Theory I First half of a year-long course on the history of social thought as a source of present-day problems and hypotheses.
Sociology^Sociological Theory II Sociological Theory II Second half of a year-long course on the history of social thought as a source of present-day problems and hypotheses.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Social Theory Advanced Study in Social Theory Course involves pursuing study in subfields of sociological theory. The course presumes a general background in social theory.
Sociology^Research Design and Sociological Methods Research Design and Sociological Methods Problems of research design, measurement, and data collection, processing, and analysis will be considered. Attention will be given to both qualitative and quantitative studies.
Sociology^Quantitative Sociological Methods Quantitative Sociological Methods This course will cover more technical issues in quantitative research methods, and will include, according to discretion of instructor, a practicum in data collection and/or analysis. Recommended for students interested in graduate work in sociology or research careers.
Sociology^Advanced Methods: In-depth Interviewing Advanced Methods: In-depth Interviewing Scientists regularly gather data through observation. Sociologists can go a step further and ask the objects of their studies about their lives and thoughts. This upper-level course teaches students how to engage in scientific research using question-based data. It involves a mix of classroom and hands-on learning, culminating in an independent research paper.
Sociology^Organizations and Social Institutions Organizations and Social Institutions This survey course studies administrative organizations and voluntary associations; major social institutions in industry, government, religion, and education.
Sociology^Sociology of the Family Sociology of the Family In this course, we trace the history of the American family from the 19th-century farm--in which work, medical care, and entertainment went on--to the smaller, more diverse, and subjectively defined family of the 21st century. We also explore ways in which the family acts as a "shock absorber" of many trends including immigration, the increasing social class divide, and especially the growing domination of the marketplace. Finally, we also explore the diversity of family forms associated
Sociology^Sociology of the Family Sociology of the Family In this course, we trace the history of the American family from the 19th-century farm--in which work, medical care, and entertainment went on--to the smaller, more diverse, and subjectively defined family of the 21st century. We also explore ways in which the family acts as a "shock absorber" of many trends including immigration, the increasing social class divide, and especially the growing domination of the marketplace. Finally, we also explore the diversity of family forms associated
Sociology^Sociology of Childhood Sociology of Childhood This course focuses on children and on varied contexts and experiences of growing up; it also highlights the social organization and meanings of age. It explores the idea of childhood as a social construction, including cross-cultural and historical variation in assumptions. Then it highlights the changing political economy and history of childhoods, including children's roles in consumption and production in the world. Lastly, it examines the intersecting dynamics of age, social class, racial ethnicity
Sociology^Families, Inequality and Social Policy Families, Inequality and Social Policy This course explores the relationships between changes in how Americans are experiencing family life, growing inequality in the U.S., and the social policy "solutions" aimed at families and children. While discussing these trends and changes and their social consequences, we will discuss government responses to these changes, how debates are framed, who debates, and how other industrialized countries consider these questions.
Sociology^Sociology of Religion Sociology of Religion The course will locate the place of religious consciousness in human action and then survey comparatively and historically the role that religion has played in human society. Will include a general theory of the nature of religious experience, religious symbolism, and the basis of religious community.
Sociology^Sociology of Education Sociology of Education The role of formal education in modern societies. Educational systems in relation to the religious, cultural, economic, and political forces shaping their character.
Sociology^Sociology of Education Sociology of Education The role of formal education in modern societies. Educational systems in relation to the religious, cultural, economic, and political forces shaping their character.
Sociology^Sociology of Law Sociology of Law Selected legal rules, principles, and institutions treated from a sociological perspective. Influence of culture and social organization on law; role of law in social change; social aspects of the administration of justice; social knowledge and the law.
Sociology^Biology, Genetics and Society Biology, Genetics and Society The course will provide an overview of the intersections of biology, genetics and society in an examination of the past, present, and possible future effects of such intersections. In particular, the course addresses contemporary controversies, such as the search for the gay gene and the biology of human behavior, the biology of superiority, and the nature-nurture debate, in order to provide students a critical insight into biology’s profound role in shaping our modern way of life.
Sociology^Sociology of Health and Medicine Sociology of Health and Medicine This course covers several topics, including distributive justice in health care, the organization and politics of the health system, the correlates of health (by race, sex, class, income), pandemics (e.g., AIDS, Avian Flu and other influenzas, etc.), and the experience of illness and interactions with doctors and the medical system.
Sociology^Global Health and Social Justice Global Health and Social Justice This course examines the social forces that promote and sustain illness throughout the globe and contribute to illness outbreaks becoming epidemics and pandemics. Emphasizing the central roles of poverty and politics in shaping health risks, disparities within and across nations are explored. With the understanding that health is, at core, a social justice issue, this course reviews policies and programs that attempt to address health problems, some of which have helped to alleviate suffering and
Sociology^Sociology of Work Sociology of Work The labor force; social control within and of occupations and professions (professionalization, professional associations vs. labor unions, codes of ethics, legal controls); social structure of the workplace, work experience of the participants, relation of both to community and society.
Sociology^Sport As a Social Institution Sport As a Social Institution Analysis of sport as social institution, its structure and functions; male-female role contrasts, race and sport; economics of sport; the roles of coach, athlete, fan--their interrelationships and complexities; current turmoil in sport and the ideological struggle which has emerged.
Sociology^Human Fertility Human Fertility This course explores human reproduction through the lenses of evolutionary biology, population statistics, and culture. Throughout, we organize the course in terms of major transitions and the question of choice. How do evolved biology and inherited culture make some choices more accessible and others less so? What happened to human fertility—and to the possibility of making choices about fertility—at such moments of change as the emergence of pair bonding in hominids, the advent of agriculture
Sociology^Organizational Strategy and Design: A Sociological Perspective Organizational Strategy and Design: A Sociological Perspective This course addresses organizational design strategy formulation and institutional analysis for a variety of organizational entities. The course features a focus on international issues, key debates in organizational design and their implications. By the end of the course, students will be expected to detect, diagnose, and recommend globally savvy solutions for many types of organizational design related issues.
Sociology^Economy and Society Economy and Society This survey course focus on three major themes of the contemporary United States: government, resources, and cities. Stress on the importance of transition from the 1960's. Examination of how each sector is influenced by policy currents, economic trends, and social conflicts.
Sociology^Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Social and Cultural Context Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Social and Cultural Context This course will examine the social and cultural environment that enables or hinders the innovation process in business. The course starts by reviewing how companies can create and foster innovative cultures and organize for innovation, and reviews differences between countries in innovativeness. It continues by examining the factors which influence whether innovations are or are not adopted. It addresses some social and ethical issues of innovation, examines the social role and context of entrepreneurs
Sociology^Sociology of Poverty Sociology of Poverty This course will explore the sociology of poverty. It will examine a number of theories on the causes of poverty, then turn to an examination of empirical studies concerning the trends and determinants of poverty, followed by an examination of the everyday life of those who live in the condition of poverty. This course will conclude with a look at social policy toward poverty. The course will focus primarily, although not exclusively, on poverty in the U.S. While there will be some readings concerning
Sociology^Social Consequences of Population Dynamics Social Consequences of Population Dynamics Introduction to population issues and the field of demography, with emphasis on historical patterns of population growth and change during the industrial era. Topics covered include the demographic transition, resource issues, economic development, the environment, population control, family planning, birth control, family and gender, aging, intergenerational transfers, and international migration.
Sociology^Development and Globalization Development and Globalization A comparative analysis of socio-economic and political change, focusing on the poor countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Offers both a basic descriptive understanding of processes of change in these countries and an introduction to major theoretical perspectives on development and globalization.
Sociology^Social Inequalities Social Inequalities This survey course studies recent trends in occupational stratification; social classes in local communities and the nation as related to interest organizations.
Sociology^Social Inequalities: American Cultures Social Inequalities: American Cultures This course explores the causes and consequences of inequality in the U.S. First, we will discuss theories and concepts scholars use to understand inequality. We then consider several institutions that sustain, reproduce and/or mitigate inequality in the U.S., such as education, labor markets, family structure, and the criminal justice system. Within each topic, we pay attention to the significance of race and ethnicity, social class, and gender.
Sociology^Race and Ethnic Relations: The United States Experience Race and Ethnic Relations: The United States Experience Course focuses on race and ethnic relations in the United States. Examination of historical experiences, contemporary circumstances and future prospects of racial and ethnic populations with particular attention to trends in relations between the dominant society and the Afro-American, Native-American, Asian-American and Latino sub-cultures. Political and social consequences of racial and ethnic stratification are explored.
Sociology^Race and Ethnic Relations: The United States Experience Race and Ethnic Relations: The United States Experience Course focuses on race and ethnic relations in the United States. Examination of historical experiences, contemporary circumstances and future prospects of racial and ethnic populations with particular attention to trends in relations between the dominant society and the Afro-American, Native-American, Asian-American and Latino sub-cultures. Political and social consequences of racial and ethnic stratification are explored.
Sociology^Race and Ethnic Relations: U.S. American Cultures Race and Ethnic Relations: U.S. American Cultures Course focuses on race and ethnic relations in the United States. Examination of historical experiences, contemporary circumstances, and future prospects of racial and ethnic populations with particular attention to trends in relations between the dominant society and the African American, Native American, Asian American, and Latino subcultures. Political and social consequences of racial and ethnic stratification are explored.
Sociology^Four Centuries of Racial Vision and Division in the U.S. Four Centuries of Racial Vision and Division in the U.S. This course mixes sociological theory and social history to trace the workings of race as a principle of social vision and division. It proceeds through a focused inquiry into the making, functioning, and contradictions of four "peculiar institutions" that have operated to define, confine, and control African Americans in the history of the United States: slavery; the Jim Crow system of legal discrimination and segregation; the ghetto of the Northern metropolis; and the novel institutional
Sociology^Sociology of Gender Sociology of Gender Historical and comparative theories of gender and gender relations. Exploration of key institutions such as family, state, and workplace through which students can understand the social, economic, and cultural factors that create gender and shape what it means to be a man or a woman. Consideration of feminist movements, in a global context, and of relationships of gender to social class, sexuality, age, race/ethnicity, and nationality.
Sociology^Urban Sociology Urban Sociology The nature, causes, consequences of world urbanization; metropolitan areas; location and types of cities, social and demographic characteristics of urban populations.
Sociology^Environmental Justice: Race, Class, Equity, and the Environment Environmental Justice: Race, Class, Equity, and the Environment Overview of the field of environmental justice, analyzing the implications of race, class, labor, and equity on environmental degradation and regulation. Environmental justice movements and struggles within poor and people of color communities in the U.S., including: African Americans, Latino Americans, and Native American Indians. Frameworks and methods for analyzing race, class, and labor. Cases of environmental injustice, community and government responses, and future strategies for achieving
Sociology^Selected Topics in Social Inequality Selected Topics in Social Inequality Specialized topics in Social Inequalities that are not regularly offered in the curriculum may occasionally be offered under this number. The focus of the course will vary depending on the instructor in charge. The survey course in Social Inequalities, 130, is recommended before taking this course.
Sociology^Politics and Social Change Politics and Social Change This survey course studies the relationship between society and politics through an analysis of the intersection of economic development, social relations, and the political sphere. Examines how class, race, ethnicity, and gender interact with political culture, ideology, and the state. The course also looks at diverse forms of political behavior, a key aspect of politics.
Sociology^Sociology of War and Conflict Sociology of War and Conflict Violent and peaceful procedures in the pursuit of national objectives; analysis of attempts to specify the causes of war.
Sociology^Ethnic Politics Ethnic Politics Examination of the role that ethnicity plays in influencing the political behavior of individuals as well as analysis of how the state in multi-ethnic countries interacts with ethnic groups.
Sociology^Social Change Social Change Study of major changes in modern societies: the sources of these changes; the processes through which they spread; their meaning for individuals and institutions.
Sociology^Social Change: American Cultures Social Change: American Cultures This course will seek to explain the formation of modern United States society by inquiring into the processes of social change that have brought us to the present as well as created possibilities for the future. Race, nationalism, and ethnicity--and movements against racism and nationalism and for multiculturalism--are central dimensions of social change in the United States. The course will explore the processes of social change as they affect and are affected by different racial and ethnic groups
Sociology^Social Change in Latin America Social Change in Latin America This course will introduce students to the origins and nature of social change in contemporary Latin America. A socio-historical approach will be used to describe the region's development, which will lay the groundwork for understanding the emergence in recent decades of movements promoting social change there. While focusing particularly on Latin America, the course will also provide the theoretical and analytical tools required to comprehend social change elsewhere in the Third World.
Sociology^Contemporary Immigration in Global Perspective Contemporary Immigration in Global Perspective The goal of this course is to introduce students to important academic and political debates around immigration, to discuss processes of immigration, integration and exclusion in different national and cultural contexts, and to look at how the question of immigration plays out in different social and political areas.
Sociology^Contemporary Immigration in Global Perspective Contemporary Immigration in Global Perspective The goal of this course is to introduce students to important academic and political debates around immigration, to discuss processes of immigration, integration and exclusion in different national and cultural contexts, and to look at how the question of immigration plays out in different social and political areas.
Sociology^Social Policy Social Policy In this course, we will examine American policy responses to poverty and inequality and evaluate various theories. We will pay particular attention to the role of pulic opinion, interest groups, race and class relations, social movements, and the state in explaining the American social welfare provision.
Sociology^Social Psychology Social Psychology This survey course examines many theoretical approaches to social psychology. The approaches may include: symbolic interactionism, neo-behaviorism, psychodynamic analyses, cognitive theories, interpersonal processes and theories of exchange.
Sociology^Social Psychology: Self and Society Social Psychology: Self and Society This survey course provides tools from social psychology to help students develop a better understanding of their own and others' behavior. Social psychology is a field that bridges sociology and psychology and is primarily concerned with how individuals view and interact with one another in everyday life. The class is organized around a survey of the great ideas from the history of social psychology. We will study research on a wide variety of topics including conformity, obedience, identity, power
Sociology^Personality and Social Structure Personality and Social Structure This course addresses how individual psyches are shaped by the wider society: how a person's locations in a culture, an historical era, and within a society affect how they think, what they feel, and how they express their personalities.
Sociology^Deviance and Social Control Deviance and Social Control A consideration of forms, causes, and controls of deviant behavior.
Sociology^Sociology of Culture Sociology of Culture This survey course studies human meaning systems, particularly as manifested in art, literature, music, and other media. It includes study of the production, reception, and aesthetic experience of cultural forms.
Sociology^Popular Culture Popular Culture This course examines various forms of popular culture including media, subcultures, art, and consumer culture. We will begin the course with an examination of the definition of popular culture and how cultural texts, artifacts, and behavior come to be seen as popular. Then we will focus on sociological theories that will guide our understanding of popular culture.
Sociology^Social Networks Social Networks A "social network" can be an association of people or of groups of people. It is usually for some kind of exchange, with the network serving as a forum or medium. It can be personal or impersonal. This course will study the relations linking persons, organizations, interest groups, states, etc., analyze the structure of these relations, and review how such structures constrain behavior, and channel social change.
Sociology^Society and Technology Society and Technology This course studies the interaction between society and technologies in a comparative and multicultural perspective. Some topics covered include the relationship between technology and human society; technology, culture and values; technology in the new global economy; development and inequality; electronic democracy; how technology has transformed work and employment; and the challenges of technological progress and the role that society plays in addressing these challenges.
Sociology^Virtual Communities/Social Media Virtual Communities/Social Media With the advent of virtual communities and online social networks, old questions about the meaning of human social behavior have taken on renewed significance. Using a variety of online social media simultaneously, and drawing upon theoretical literature in a variety of disciplines, this course delves into discourse about community across disciplines. This course will enable students to establish both theoretical and experiential foundations for making decisions and judgments regarding the relations
Sociology^Selected Topics in Sociology of Culture Selected Topics in Sociology of Culture Specialized topics in sociology of culture that are not regularly offered in the curriculum may occasionally be offered under this number. The focus of the course will vary depending on the instructor in charge. Possibilities include investigations of new media for cultural expression or social networking, cultures of care giving, and the meaning of consumption patterns. The survey course in sociology of culture, 160, is recommended before taking this course.
Sociology^Cultural Perspectives of Food Cultural Perspectives of Food The course will provide a broad overview of food as culture. The course begins with foundational writings on the cultural implications of food as consumption and social distinction, and the culture of a global food world. The course also examines how food is imbued with gender, race, class, ethnic and sexual meanings and the constitution and creation of identity.
Sociology^Contemporary Chinese Society Contemporary Chinese Society An introduction to institutions, social groups, and values in contemporary Chinese society. Dynamics of social change in a revolutionary and post-revolutionary setting. Trends in the future development of Chinese society.
Sociology^Selected Topics in Area Studies Selected Topics in Area Studies Specialized topics in area studies in sociology that are not regularly offered in the curriculum may occasionally be offered under this number. The focus of the course will vary depending on the instructor in charge.
Sociology^Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Culture Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Culture This survey course explores difference between the US and European countries in the cultural domain. It starts by discussing American Exceptionalism, focusing on 1) individualism versus collectivism, 2) liberal market ideology versus social democracy, and 3) religiously versus secularism. Subsequent topics are: differences in the mind and psyche, focusing on substance use and abuse, the role of self-fulfillment, and of therapy, as well as moral judgment and the visions of the good life, systems
Sociology^Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Education Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Education In this course we will focus first on relevant sociological theories of comparative education, and then apply these theories in their practical context by looking at social issues in education in the United States and selected European countries. Next we will discuss the impact of race, ethnicity, language, social class, and gender. Finally, we will consider sociological perspectives on comtemporary education reform, school change, and alternative education.
Sociology^Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Inequality Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Inequality This survey course explores differences between modern societies through systematic comparisons of inequality in the U.S. and European countries. It analyzes central social changes, social problems and institutions in the societies, addressing gender inequality, immigration, and rising inequality.
Sociology^Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Political Economy Comparative Perspectives on U.S. and European Societies: Political Economy This course introduces comparative political economy with focus on the US, European countries, and the international economic arena. We will compare and conrast different theories of comparative political economy. Then we will focus on the varied economic, political, and social impacts of the EU in comparision to the NAFTA. Lastly, we will focus on challenges of and possible solutions to economic developments.
Sociology^Elementary Forms of Racial Domination: International Perspectives Elementary Forms of Racial Domination: International Perspectives A broad survey of race and ethnic relations in a wide variety of nations and periods, with special attention to comparisons with the present and past patterns in the United States. Emphasis on: social, economic, political, institutional, social psychological, and demographic processes.
Sociology^Family and Household in Comparative Perspective Family and Household in Comparative Perspective How are families and households organized around the world? Which aspects of household and family vary, and which are constant? What are the relationships between household and family on the one hand and the political, economic, or broad social patterns on the other? This course examines all of these questions, taking historical and contemporary examples from Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Americas.
Sociology^Global Sociology Global Sociology Global sociology seeks to transcend national boundaries, studying the world as a unit unto itself, populated by organizations, networks, and movements. Global sociology cannot be constructed by sociologists from a single country, but it must be a collaborative effort from different parts of the planet. We will study globalization through a sociological lens by asking distinguished sociologists from around the world to discuss such contemporary issues as immigration, terrorism, disasters, etc.
Sociology^American Society American Society This course explores the ways that contemporary American society is different than other societies and different than American society in earlier periods.
Sociology^Selected Topics in Comparative Perspectives Selected Topics in Comparative Perspectives Specialized topics in comparative perspectives in sociology that are not regularly offered in the curriculum may occasionally be offered under this number. The focus of the course will vary depending on the instructor in charge. One of the survey courses in comparative perspectives in sociology, 180C, 180E, 180I, or 180P, is recommended before taking this course.
Sociology^Dutch Culture and Society: Amsterdam and Berkeley in the Sixties Dutch Culture and Society: Amsterdam and Berkeley in the Sixties This course will focus on the cultural aspects of protest- and youth cultures in two cities that were influential in the sixties: Amsterdam and Berkeley. Particular attention will be paid to how American popular culture was perceived in a European context. All readings and discussions in English.
Sociology^Comparative Perspectives in Sociology: The Global Elite Comparative Perspectives in Sociology: The Global Elite The course will cover both traditional and new elite theories, examine contemporary empirical evidence on the rise of the new global plutocracy, and think about the long-term implications of this phenomenon for inequality, culture, and society.
Sociology^Seminar and Research in Sociology Seminar and Research in Sociology Advanced study in sociology, with specific topics to be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Sociology^Seminar and Research in Sociology: American Cultures Seminar and Research in Sociology: American Cultures Advanced study in sociology, with specific topics that satisfy the American Cultures requirement, e.g., immigration, to be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Sociology^Senior Honors Thesis and Seminar Senior Honors Thesis and Seminar Intensive study of individual topic to provide background for honors thesis which is completed during the second semester of the sequence. Group and individual conferences.
Sociology^Senior Honors Thesis and Seminar Senior Honors Thesis and Seminar Intensive study of individual topic to provide background for honors thesis which is completed during the second semester of the sequence. Group and individual conferences.
Sociology^Sociology Proseminar Sociology Proseminar In this proseminar students will become familiar with faculty and their various research interests. It consists of presentations by faculty of their ongoing work and allows students to address questions within and about the discipline.
Sociology^Reading and Writing Seminar for Sociology Reading and Writing Seminar for Sociology This course aims to introduce the structure, rules, and mechanics of formal academic writing in the discipline of sociology. The focus of the course will be on developing the abilities of reading, analyzing, comprehending, and then practicing the ways in which this type of formal, academic, sociological writing operates.
Sociology^Writing Research Writing Research This seminar is for students who are interested in writing a longer research-based paper. It is designed to improve writing skills, with a focus on empirical sociological research. Students will be required to conduct, write, and present an original research project. The seminar will also have a set of substantive readings, which will help students with specific substantive interests focus their work. The readings will vary by year and instructor, and may cover topics such as immigration, ethnicity
Sociology^Social Psychology Laboratory Research Social Psychology Laboratory Research In this course, students apply to work as research assistants in the sociology department's Laboratory for Social Research. Students will do a variety of research related activities including participation in a weekly laboratory workshop, running participants in study sessions, analyzing data, conducting interviews, and conducting literature reviews.
Sociology^UCDC Core Seminar UCDC Core Seminar This course is the UCDC letter-graded core seminar for 4 units that complements the P/NP credited internship course UGIS C196B. Core seminars are designed to enhance the experience of and provide an intellectual framework for the student's internship. UCDC core seminars are taught in sections that cover various tracks such as the Congress, media, bureaucratic organizations and the Executive Branch, international relations, public policy and general un-themed original research.
Sociology^UCDC Internship UCDC Internship This course provides a credited internship for all students enrolled in the UCDC and Cal in the Capital Programs. It must be taken in conjunction with the required academic core course C196A. C196B requires that students work 3-4 days per week as interns in settings selected to provide them with exposure to and experienc in government, public policy, international affairs, media, the arts or other areas or relevance to their major fields of study.
Sociology^Special Field Research Special Field Research Students work in selected internship programs approved in advance by the faculty coordinator and for which written contracts have been established between the sponsoring organization and the student. Students will be expected to produce two progress reports for their faculty coordinator during the course of the internship, as well as a final paper for the course consisting of at least 35 pages. Other restrictions apply; see faculty adviser.
Sociology^Field Study in Sociology Field Study in Sociology Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of sociology in off-campus organizations. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required.
Sociology^Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Group studies of selected topics which vary over time.
Sociology^Directed Group Study for Undergraduates--Berkeley Connect Directed Group Study for Undergraduates--Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Sociology^Proseminar Proseminar This proseminar is required of all first-year graduate students and is supervised by a regular faculty member. The seminar will familiarize students with faculty and their various research interests and of opportunities available for funding via research and teaching assistantships. It consists of presentations by faculty on their past, present and future research and by representatives of Organized Research Units on their mission, programs of research, and opportunities for assistantships.
Sociology^Classical Social Theory Classical Social Theory Social Theory began as an attempt to come to grips with the massive social transformations in Europe beginning around 1500. Modernity was understood in three ways. It concerned the development of a capitalist economy based on the use of science to develop new technology, the emergence of states with bureaucracies allied with military organizations, and the decline of religious authority as the main arbiter of moral values accompanied by the rise of the model of the self-interested purposive actor.
Sociology^Modern Social Theory Modern Social Theory This course is a continuation of our required graduate theory course. We separate modern and classical social theory by considering modern social theory to consist of works published after World War II. Modern sociological theory uses classical social theory both as a source and a foil. There have been continuities in social thought whereby more contemporary theorists view themselves as using elements of classical social theory, sometimes in combination and at other times to understand different
Sociology^Advanced Study in Sociology Theory: Classical Sociological Theory Advanced Study in Sociology Theory: Classical Sociological Theory Particular theorists or theoretical traditions will be selected for intensive study, according to the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Sociology Theory: Contemporary Sociological Theory Advanced Study in Sociology Theory: Contemporary Sociological Theory Particular theorists or theoretical traditions will be selected for intensive study, according to the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Sociology Theory: Systematic Sociological Theory Advanced Study in Sociology Theory: Systematic Sociological Theory Particular theorists or theoretical traditions will be selected for intensive study, according to the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Law Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Law Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Race and Ethnic Relations Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Race and Ethnic Relations Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Political Sociology Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Political Sociology Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Organizations Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Organizations Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Industrial Sociology Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Industrial Sociology Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Family Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Family Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Social Stratification and Class Analysis Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Social Stratification and Class Analysis Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Development Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Development Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Religion Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Religion Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Urban Sociology Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Urban Sociology Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Social Psychology Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Social Psychology Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Gender Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Gender Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Culture Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Culture Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Education Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Education Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Health and Medicine Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Health and Medicine Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Area Studies Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Area Studies Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Economy and Society Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Economy and Society Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Professions Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Professions Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Social Movements Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Social Movements Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Theory Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Theory Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Society and Environment Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Society and Environment Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Society and Technology Supervised Preparatory Course Work: Society and Technology Introductory study of a sociological field, among those listed in the 280 series, including participation in the appropriate undergraduate course in that field. Also includes individual meetings with the faculty sponsor, who may stipulate additional requirements.
Sociology^Methods of Sociological Research Methods of Sociological Research A three-semester sequence course introducing logical and analytic techniques commonly employed in social science research. The methodological problems encountered in field work, historical and comparative inquiry, experimental research, and survey analysis. The first semester concentrates on techniques for gathering evidence; the second and third semesters focuses on beginning and intermediate numerical techniques for analyzing evidence.
Sociology^Methods of Sociological Research Methods of Sociological Research A three-semester sequence course introducing logical and analytic techniques commonly employed in social science research. The methodological problems encountered in field work, historical and comparative inquiry, experimental research, and survey analysis. The first semester concentrates on techniques for gathering evidence; the second and third semesters focuses on beginning and intermediate numerical techniques for analyzing evidence.
Sociology^Methods of Sociological Research Methods of Sociological Research A three-semester sequence course introducing logical and analytic techniques commonly employed in social science research. The methodological problems encountered in field work, historical and comparative inquiry, experimental research, and survey analysis. The first semester concentrates on techniques for gathering evidence; the second and third semesters focuses on beginning and intermediate numerical techniques for analyzing evidence.
Sociology^Quantitative/Statistical Research Methods in Social Sciences Quantitative/Statistical Research Methods in Social Sciences Selected topics in quantitative/statistical methods of research in the social sciences and particularly in sociology. Possible topics include: analysis of qualitative/categorical data; loglinear models and latent-structure analysis; the analysis of cross-classified data having ordered and unordered categories; measure, models, and graphical displays in the analysis of cross-classified data; correspondence analysis, association analysis, and related methods of data analysis.
Sociology^Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Comparative and Historical Research Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Comparative and Historical Research Seminar in advanced sociological research methods.
Sociology^Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Quantitative/Statistical Research Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Quantitative/Statistical Research Seminar in advanced sociological research methods.
Sociology^Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Participant Observation Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Participant Observation Seminar in advanced sociological research methods.
Sociology^Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Interview Methods Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Interview Methods Seminar in advanced sociological research methods.
Sociology^Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Experimental Methods Advanced Seminars in Research Methods: Experimental Methods Seminar in advanced sociological research methods.
Sociology^Research Design Research Design This course will take students through the process of developing, carrying out, and writing up a research project. The course is ideal for students working on their MA papers, but it is also appropriate for students who are formulating dissertation prospectuses. We will begin by reading a guide to the logical problems that all research methods, qualitative or quantitative, must address if they are to study social causation.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Law Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Law Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociology of Poverty Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociology of Poverty This course introduces students to the sociology of poverty by understanding its causes and conditions. Poverty is part of the social stratification system as well as a condition with properties that characterize the individual living with extreme material scarcity. Thus, it involves both the social and the physical world. The course will engage a broad literature on poverty that incorporates research from sociology, economics, and anthropology. We also will consider structure, culture, and agency
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Race and Ethnic Relations Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Race and Ethnic Relations Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Political Sociology Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Political Sociology Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Organizations Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Organizations Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociology of Work Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociology of Work Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Family Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Family Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Social Stratification and Class Analysis Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Social Stratification and Class Analysis Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Development Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Development Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Religion Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Religion Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Urban Sociology Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Urban Sociology Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Social Psychology Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Social Psychology Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Gender Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Gender Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Culture Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Culture Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Education Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Education Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Area Studies Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Area Studies Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Economy and Society Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Economy and Society Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Social Movements Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Social Movements Courses under this number involve pursuing graduate study in substantive sociological subfields. The courses presume familiarity with the fields of study. Consult departmental catalog for current descriptions.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociology of Everyday Life Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociology of Everyday Life This seminar approaches the sociology of everyday life from a thematic perspective. This course covers topics grouped in six major rubics: the habitus, the public sphere, the private sphere, strategy and tactics, space, and time. We will focus on codes/rules of conduct and etiquette, taste, style, self-presentation, (house) work, emotions, resistance, and the spatial and temporal coordinates of social action. Readings will cover a broad terrain chronologically and geographically.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sexuality Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sexuality In this course we address a wide range of social theories and sociological investigations of sexuality as it is conceptualized and experienced in social contexts. Theoretical approaches to sexuality may include psychoanalytic, feminist, Marxist, symbolic-interactionist, and discursive/post-structural approaches to understanding how sexual categories vary over time and across cultures, how people identify with or against them, and how social power works through time.
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Immigration and Incorporation Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Immigration and Incorporation This seminar examines the dynamics of migration, integration, and citizenship, both from the perspective of the receiving society and from the lived experiences of migrants themselves. The seminar focuses on processes of incorporation--economic, social, cultural, and political--but we also look at paradigms that challenge an integrationist reading of migration, in particular transnationalism and models of postnational citizenship.
Sociology^Sociology of Globalization Sociology of Globalization Sociology now analyzes social organization that transcends national boundaries, not just as linking national societies or as influencing national societies, but as a phenomenon in its own right. This course brings together a selection of literature that looks at transnational social organizations and the distinctive dynamics of global political economy and culture and offers a sociological perspective on what lies behind the vague and confusing label of "globalization."
Sociology^Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociol Policy Advanced Study in Substantive Sociological Fields: Sociol Policy This course will examine the major theoretical arguments that seek to account for the development of social policy, including arguments about the pwoer of social forces such as business and labor, the role of racial and ethnic division, the influence of ideas, and the organizational features of the state. The course readings examine developments in the United States with some comparision to other countries.
Sociology^Dissertation Seminar Dissertation Seminar The seminar is a forum for intensive attention to writing of seminar members at any stage, from initial planning of the dissertation to the job presentation talk. We will be especially concerned with reflexive issues: the choice of problem and method as a sociological, political, personal, and market issue; the place of the researcher in research; sociology as a discipline and interdiscipline. Problems of organization, scope, theoretical and empirical emphasis will also be addressed.
Sociology^Professional Writing Seminar Professional Writing Seminar This seminar is a workshop on professional writing for sociologists. We will focus on editing, rewriting, re-editing, and re-rewriting seminar members' papers with the goal of completing a paper appropriate for the professional journals. In addition, we will cover several topics in writing, including psychological inhibition, style, journals, writing for the general public, and the world of book publishing. Class time will be divided into short lectures and workshop periods, during which we will
Sociology^Advanced Research Seminar Advanced Research Seminar The purpose of this seminar is to provide participants with an opportunity to present their work-in-progress, be it a potential academic journal submission, dissertation chapter, dissertation prospectus or even a draft interview schedule. Through a process of peer-review, we will work on improving each participant's written work, and to stay abreast of the diverse work being done in the field of the seminar's topic.
Sociology^Advanced Research Seminar--Dissertation Advanced Research Seminar--Dissertation The purpose of this seminar is to provide students an opportunity to present their work in progress (dissertation, chapter/prospectus, etc.). Through a process of peer review we will work to improve each student's dissertation work.
Sociology^Advanced Research Seminar Advanced Research Seminar The purpose of this seminar is to provide students an opportunity to present their work in progress (academic journal submission, dissertation chapter/prospectus, etc., or even a draft interview schedule). Through a process of peer review, we will work to improve each student's written work and to stay abreast of the diverse work being done in the field of the seminar's topic.
Sociology^Independent Study for Graduate Students in Sociology Independent Study for Graduate Students in Sociology By arrangement with faculty.
Sociology^Directed Dissertation Research Directed Dissertation Research By arrangement with faculty. Open to qualified students advanced to candidacy.
Sociology^Directed Group Studies for Graduates Directed Group Studies for Graduates Group studies of selected topics which vary from year to year.
Sociology^Individual Study and Research Individual Study and Research For students engaged in individual research and study. May not be substituted for available graduate lecture courses or 290.
Sociology^Professional Training: Research Professional Training: Research Units may not be used to meet unit or residence requirements for either the master's or doctoral degree.
Sociology^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for the master's requirements in consultation with the adviser. Units may not be used to meet either unit or residency requirements for the master's degree.
Mechanical Engineering^Thermodynamics Thermodynamics This course introduces the fundamentals of energy storage, thermophysical properties of liquids and gases, and the basic principles of thermodynamics which are then applied to various areas of engineering related to energy conversion and air conditioning.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Solid Mechanics Introduction to Solid Mechanics A review of equilibrium for particles and rigid bodies. Application to truss structures. The concepts of deformation, strain, and stress. Equilibrium equations for a continuum. Elements of the theory of linear elasticity. The states of plane stress and plane strain. Solution of elementary elasticity problems (beam bending, torsion of circular bars). Euler buckling in elastic beams.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Solid Mechanics Introduction to Solid Mechanics A review of equilibrium for particles and rigid bodies. Application to truss structures. The concepts of deformation, strain, and stress. Equilibrium equations for a continuum. Elements of the theory of linear elasticity. The states of plane stress and plane strain. Solution of elementary elasticity problems (beam bending, torsion of circular bars). Euler buckling in elastic beams.
Mechanical Engineering^Supervised Independent Group Studies Supervised Independent Group Studies Organized group study on various topics under the sponsorship and direction of a member of the Mechanical Engineering faculty.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Lean Manufacturing Systems Introduction to Lean Manufacturing Systems Fundamentals of lean manufacturing systems including manufacturing fundamentals, unit operations and manufacturing line considerations for work in process (WIP), manufacturing lead time (MLT), economics, quality monitoring; high mix/low volume (HMLV) systems fundamentals including just in time (JIT), kanban, buffers and line balancing; class project/case studies for design and analysis of competitive manufacturing systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Mechanical Systems for Mechatronics Introduction to Mechanical Systems for Mechatronics The objectives of this course are to introduce students to modern experimental techniques for mechanical engineering, and to improve students' written and oral communication skills. Students will be provided exposure to, and experience with, a variety of sensors used in mechatronic systems including sensors to measure temperature, displacement, velocity, acceleration and strain. The role of error and uncertainty in measurements and analysis will be examined. Students will also be provided exposure
Mechanical Engineering^Mechatronics Design Mechatronics Design Introduction to design and realization of mechatronics systems. Micro computer architectures. Basic computer IO devices. Embedded microprocessor systems and control, IO programming such as analogue to digital converters, PWM, serial and parallel outputs. Electrical components such as power supplies, operational amplifiers, transformers and filters. Shielding and grounding. Design of electric, hydraulic and pneumatic actuators. Design of sensors. Design of power transmission systems. Kinematics and
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Mechanics II Engineering Mechanics II This course is an introduction to the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. The material, based on a Newtonian formulation of the governing equations, is illustrated with numerous examples ranging from one-dimensional motion of a single particle to planar motions of rigid bodies and systems of rigid bodies.
Mechanical Engineering^Fluid Mechanics Fluid Mechanics This course introduces the fundamentals and techniques of fluid mechanics with the aim of describing and controlling engineering flows.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Engineering Laboratory Mechanical Engineering Laboratory Experimental investigation of engineering systems and of phenomena of interest to mechanical engineers. Design and planning of experiments. Analysis of data and reporting of experimental results.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials This course covers elastic and plastic deformation under static and dynamic loads. Failure by yielding, fracture, fatigue, wear, and environmental factors are also examined. Topics include engineering materials, heat treatment, structure-property relationships, elastic deformation and multiaxial loading, plastic deformation and yield criteria, dislocation plasticity and strengthening mechanisms, creep, stress concentration effects, fracture, fatigue, and contact deformation.
Mechanical Engineering^Heat Transfer Heat Transfer This course covers transport processes of mass, momentum, and energy from a macroscopic view with emphasis both on understanding why matter behaves as it does and on developing practical problem solving skills. The course is divided into four parts: introduction, conduction, convection, and radiation.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Product Development Introduction to Product Development Provides project-based learning experience in innovative new product development, with a focus on mechanical engineering systems. Design concepts and techniques are introduced, and the student's design ability is developed in a design or feasibility study chosen to emphasize ingenuity and provide wide coverage of engineering topics. Relevant software will be integrated into studio sessions, including solid modeling and environmental life cycle analysis. Design optimization and social, economic,
Mechanical Engineering^Molecular Biomechanics and Mechanobiology of the Cell Molecular Biomechanics and Mechanobiology of the Cell This course applies methods of statistical continuum mechanics to subcellar biomechanical phenomena ranging from nanoscale (molecular) to microscale (whole cell and cell population) biological processes at the interface of mechanics, biology, and chemistry.
Mechanical Engineering^Structural Aspects of Biomaterials Structural Aspects of Biomaterials This course covers the structure and mechanical functions of load bearing tissues and their replacements. Natural and synthetic load-bearing biomaterials for clinical applications are reviewed. Biocompatibility of biomaterials and host response to structural implants are examined. Quantitative treatment of biomechanical issues and constitutive relationships of tissues are covered in order to design biomaterial replacements for structural function. Material selection for load bearing applications
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Nanotechnology and Nanoscience Introduction to Nanotechnology and Nanoscience This course introduces engineering students (juniors and seniors) to the field of nanotechnology and nanoscience. The course has two components: (1) Formal lectures. Students receive a set of formal lectures introducing them to the field of nanotechnology and nanoscience. The material covered includes nanofabrication technology (how one achieves the nanometer length scale, from "bottom up" to "top down" technologies), the interdisciplinary nature of nanotechnology and nanoscience
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to MEMS (Microelectromechanical Systems) Introduction to MEMS (Microelectromechanical Systems) Fundamentals of microelectromechanical systems including design, fabrication of microstructures; surface-micromachining, bulk-micromachining, LIGA, and other micro machining processes; fabrication principles of integrated circuit device and their applications for making MEMS devices; high-aspect-ratio microstructures; scaling issues in the micro scale (heat transfer, fluid mechanics and solid mechanics); device design, analysis, and mask layout.
Mechanical Engineering^Computational Biomechanics Across Multiple Scales Computational Biomechanics Across Multiple Scales This course applies the methods of computational modeling and continuum mechanics to biomedical phenomena spanning various length scales ranging from molecular to cellular to tissue and organ levels. The course is intended for upper level undergraduate students who have been exposed to undergraduate continuum mechanics (statics and strength of materials.)
Mechanical Engineering^Processing of Materials in Manufacturing Processing of Materials in Manufacturing Fundamentals of manufacturing processes (metal forming, forging, metal cutting, welding, joining, and casting); selection of metals, plastics, and other materials relative to the design and choice of manufacturing processes; geometric dimensioning and tolerancing of all processes.
Mechanical Engineering^Composite Materials--Analysis, Design, Manufacture Composite Materials--Analysis, Design, Manufacture Properties and microstructure of high-strength fiber materials (glass, carbon, polymer, ceramic fibers) and matrix materials (polymer, metal, ceramic, and carbon matrices). Specific strength and stiffness of high-performance composites. Stress, strain and stiffness transformations. Elastic properties of a single orthotropic ply. Laminated plate theory. Failure criteria. Short fiber composites. Manufacturing processes. Sandwich panels. Joints. Design of composite structures and components. Sustainability
Mechanical Engineering^Computer-Aided Mechanical Design Computer-Aided Mechanical Design Introduction to design (not drafting) via computers. Using MATLAB and other Finite Element software, students will be introduced to a variety of mechanical design techniques and apply those techniques to the design of beams, automobile engine components, planar machine elements, linkages, and flexure hinges. These techniques include ad-hoc methods, exhaustive numeration, grid studies, and informal optimizations.
Mechanical Engineering^Design of Planar Machinery Design of Planar Machinery Synthesis, analysis, and design of planar machines. Kinematic structure, graphical, analytical, and numerical analysis and synthesis. Linkages, cams, reciprocating engines, gear trains, and flywheels.
Mechanical Engineering^Vehicle Dynamics and Control Vehicle Dynamics and Control Physical understanding of automotive vehicle dynamics including simple lateral, longitudinal, and ride quality models. An overview of active safety systems will be introduced including the basic concepts and terminology, the state-of-the-art development, and basic principles of systems such as ABS, traction control, dynamic stability control, and roll stability control. Passive, semi-active, and active suspension systems will be analyzed. Concepts of autonomous vehicle technology including drive-by-wire
Mechanical Engineering^Dynamic Systems and Feedback Dynamic Systems and Feedback Physical understanding of dynamics and feedback. Linear feedback control of dynamic systems. Mathematical tools for analysis and design. Stability. Modeling systems with differential equations. Linearization. Solution to linear, time-invariant differential equations.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Vibrations Mechanical Vibrations An introduction to the theory of mechanical vibrations including topics of harmonic motion, resonance, transient and random excitation, applications of Fourier analysis and convolution methods. Multidegree of freedom discrete systems including principal mode, principal coordinates and Rayleigh's principle.
Mechanical Engineering^Feedback Control Systems Feedback Control Systems Analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems in transform and time domains. Control system design by root locus, frequency response, and state space methods. Applications to electro-mechanical and mechatronics systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Design of Microprocessor-Based Mechanical Systems Design of Microprocessor-Based Mechanical Systems This course provides preparation for the conceptual design and prototyping of mechanical systems that use microprocessors to control machine activities, acquire and analyze data, and interact with operators. The architecture of microprocessors is related to problems in mechanical systems through study of systems, including electro-mechanical components, thermal components and a variety of instruments. Laboratory exercises lead through studies of different levels of software.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Micro/Nano Mechanical Systems Laboratory Introduction to Micro/Nano Mechanical Systems Laboratory This hands-on laboratory course focuses on the mechanical engineering principles that underlie the design, fabricaton, and operation of micro/nanoscale mechanical systems, including devices made by nanowire/nanotube syntheses; photolithography/soft lithography; and molding processes. Each laboratory will have different focuses for basic understanding of MEMS/NEMS systems from prototype constructions to experimental testings using mechanical, electrical, or optical techniques.
Mechanical Engineering^Combustion Processes Combustion Processes Fundamentals of combustion, flame structure, flame speed, flammability, ignition, stirred reaction, kinetics and nonequilibrium processes, pollutant formation. Application to engines, energy production and fire safety.
Mechanical Engineering^Energy Conversion Principles Energy Conversion Principles This course covers the fundamental principles of energy conversion processes, followed by development of theoretical and computational tools that can be used to analyze energy conversion processes. The course also introduces the use of modern computational methods to model energy conversion performance characteristics of devices and systems. Performance features, sources of inefficiencies, and optimal design strategies are explored for a variety of applications, which may include conventional combustion
Mechanical Engineering^Solar-Powered Vehicles: Analysis, Design and Fabrication Solar-Powered Vehicles: Analysis, Design and Fabrication This course addresses all aspects of design, analysis, construction and economics of solar-powered vehicles. It begins with an examination of the fundamentals of photovoltaic solar power generation, and the capabilities and limitations that exist when using this form of renewable energy. The efficiency of energy conversion and storage will be evaluated across an entire system, from the solar energy that is available to the mechanical power that is ultimately produced. The structural and dynamic
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Heat Transfer Advanced Heat Transfer Basic principles of heat transfer and their application. Subject areas include steady-state and transient system analyses for conduction, free and forced convection, boiling, condensation and thermal radiation.
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Aerodynamics Engineering Aerodynamics Introduction to the lift, drag, and moment of two-dimensional airfoils, three-dimensional wings, and the complete airplane. Calculations of the performance and stability of airplanes in subsonic flight.
Mechanical Engineering^Marine Statics and Structures Marine Statics and Structures Terminology and definition of hull forms, conditions of static equilibrium and stability of floating submerged bodies. Effects of damage on stability. Structural loads and response. Box girder theory. Isotropic and orthotropic plate bending and bucking.
Mechanical Engineering^Ocean-Environment Mechanics Ocean-Environment Mechanics Ocean environment. Physical properties and characteristics of the oceans. Global conservation laws. Surface-waves generation. Gravity-wave mechanics, kinematics, and dynamics. Design consideration of ocean vehicles and systems. Model-testing techniques. Prediction of resistance and response in waves--physical modeling and computer models.
Mechanical Engineering^Microscale Fluid Mechanics Microscale Fluid Mechanics Phenomena of physical, technological, and biological significance in flows of gases and liquids at the microscale. The course begins with familiar equations of Newtonian fluid mechanics, then proceeds to the study of essentially 1-D flows in confined geometries with the lubrication equations. Next is a study of the flow of thin films spreading under gravity or surface tension gradients. Lubrication theory of compressible gases leads to consideration of air bearings. Two- and 3-D flows are treated
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanics of Offshore Systems Mechanics of Offshore Systems This course covers major aspects of offshore engineering including ocean environment, loads on offshore structures, cables and mooring, underwater acoustics and arctic operations.
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Mechanics III Engineering Mechanics III This course builds upon material learned in 104, examining the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies moving in three dimensions. Topics include non-fixed axis rotations of rigid bodies, Euler angles and parameters, kinematics of rigid bodies, and the Newton-Euler equations of motion for rigid bodies. The course material will be illustrated with real-world examples such as gyroscopes, spinning tops, vehicles, and satellites. Applications of the material range from vehicle navigation to celestial
Mechanical Engineering^Dynamics of Charged Particulate Systems: Modeling, Theory and Computation Dynamics of Charged Particulate Systems: Modeling, Theory and Computation Introduction to the dynamics of small-scale charged particle systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Fundamentals of Acoustics Fundamentals of Acoustics Plane and spherical sound waves. Sound intensity. Propagation in tubes and horns. Resonators. Standing waves. Radiation from oscillating surface. Reciprocity. Reverberation and diffusion. Electro-acoustic loud speaker and microphone problems. Environmental and architectural acoustics. Noise measurement and control. Effects on man.
Mechanical Engineering^Intermediate Dynamics Intermediate Dynamics This course introduces and investigates Lagrange's equations of motion for particles and rigid bodies. The subject matter is particularly relevant to applications comprised of interconnected and constrained discrete mechanical components. The material is illustrated with numerous examples. These range from one-dimensional motion of a single particle to three-dimensional motions of rigid bodies and systems of rigid bodies.
Mechanical Engineering^Orthopedic Biomechanics Orthopedic Biomechanics Statics, dynamics, optimization theory, composite beam theory, beam-on-elastic foundation theory, Hertz contact theory, and materials behavior. Forces and moments acting on human joints; composition and mechanical behavior of orthopedic biomaterials; design/analysis of artificial joint, spine, and fracture fixation prostheses; musculoskeletal tissues including bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, and muscle; osteoporosis and fracture-risk predication of bones; and bone adaptation. MATLAB-based project
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Analysis Using the Finite Element Method Engineering Analysis Using the Finite Element Method This is an introductory course on the finite element method and is intended for seniors in engineering and applied science disciplines. The course covers the basic topics of finite element technology, including domain discretization, polynomial interpolation, application of boundary conditions, assembly of global arrays, and solution of the resulting algebraic systems. Finite element formulations for several important field equations are introduced using both direct and integral approaches. Particular
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Continuum Mechanics Introduction to Continuum Mechanics Kinematics of deformation, the concept of stress, conservation of mass and balance of linear momentum, angular momentum and energy. Mechanical constitutive equations for ideal fluid, linear elastic solid.
Mechanical Engineering^Rapid Prototyping of Mechanical Systems Rapid Prototyping of Mechanical Systems Design, optimization, rapid prototyping, assembly, test and evaluation of mechanical components and sub-systems used in mechanical systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Professional Communication for Mechanical Engineers Professional Communication for Mechanical Engineers The course emphasizes understanding of and performance in professional speaking situations, including presentations, meetings, interviews, and informal business conversations. It emphasizes collaborative projects with distance partners. It combines theory and practice, integrating extensive speaking practice and individual critiques from instructor and students. The purpose is to advance students' ability to collaborate and communicate effectively in a variety of professional environments.
Mechanical Engineering^Practical Control System Design: A Systematic Loopshaping Approach Practical Control System Design: A Systematic Loopshaping Approach After a review of basic loopshaping, we introduce the loopshaping design methodology of McFarlane and Glover, and learn how to use it effectively. The remainder of the course studies the mathematics underlying the new method (one of the most prevalent advanced techniques used in industry) justifying its validity.
Mechanical Engineering^Model Predictive Control Model Predictive Control Basics on optimization and polyhedra manipulation. Analysis and design of constrained predictive controllers for linear and nonlinear systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Practical Control System Design: A Systematic Optimization Approach Practical Control System Design: A Systematic Optimization Approach The Youla-parametrization of all stabilizing controllers allows certain time-domain and frequency-domain closed-loop design objectives to be cast as convex optimizations, and solved reliably using off-the-shelf numerical optimization codes. This course covers the Youla parametrization, basic elements of convex optimization, and finally control design using these techniques.
Mechanical Engineering^Cases and Conflicts in Engineering Ethics Cases and Conflicts in Engineering Ethics Engineering is challenged by issues of security, poverty and under-development, and environmental sustainability. These issues intersect with those of race, class, and culture in U.S. society. This course focuses on engineering ethics case studies as they apply to issues of workplace diversity, sustainable practices, economic impacts on neighborhoods and nations, and issues of security and identity. The goal of this course is to broaden the understanding of engineering ethics from individual and
Mechanical Engineering^Professional Communication Professional Communication This course is designed to enhance students' written and oral communication skills. Written work consists of informal documents--correspondence, internal reports, and reviews--and formal work--proposals, conference papers, journal articles, and websites. Presentations consist of informal and formal reports, including job and media interviews, phone interviews, conference calls, video conferences, progress reports, sales pitches, and feasibility studies.
Mechanical Engineering^Honors Undergraduate Research Honors Undergraduate Research Final report required. Students who have completed a satisfactory number of advanced courses may pursue original research under the direction of one of the members of the faculty. A maximum of three units of H194 may be used to fulfill technical elective requirements in the Mechanical Engineering program (unlike 198 or 199, which do not satisfy technical elective requirements). Students can use a maximum of three units of graded research units (H194 or 196) towards their technical elective requirement.
Mechanical Engineering^Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research Students who have completed a satisfactory number of advanced courses may pursue original research under the direction of one of the members of the staff. A maximum of three units of 196 may be used to fulfill technical elective requirements in the Mechanical Engineering program (unlike 198 or 199, which do not satisfy technical elective requirements). Students can use a maximum of three units of graded research units (H194 or 196) towards their technical elective requirement. Final report required.
Mechanical Engineering^Undergraduate Engineering Field Studies Undergraduate Engineering Field Studies Supervised experience relative to specific aspects of practice in engineering. Under guidance of a faculty member, the student will work in industry, primarily in an internship setting or another type of short-time status. Emphasis is to attain practical experience in the field.
Mechanical Engineering^Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates Group study of a selected topic or topics in Mechanical Engineering. Credit for 198 or 199 courses combined may not exceed 4 units in any single term. See College for other restrictions.
Mechanical Engineering^Design, Evaluate, and Scale Development Technologies Design, Evaluate, and Scale Development Technologies This required course for the Designated Emphasis in Development Engineering will include projects and case studies, many related to projects at UC Berkeley, such as those associated with the Development Impact Labs (DIL). Student teams will work with preliminary data to define the problem. They will then collect and analyze interview and survey data from potential users and begin to design a solution. Students will explore how to use novel monitoring technologies and “big data” for product improvement
Mechanical Engineering^Modeling and Simulation of Advanced Manufacturing Processes Modeling and Simulation of Advanced Manufacturing Processes This course provides the student with a modern introduction to the basic industrial practices, modeling techniques, theoretical background, and computational methods to treat classical and cutting edge manufacturing processes in a coherent and self-consistent manner.
Mechanical Engineering^Computational Design of Multifunctional/Multiphysical Composite Materials Computational Design of Multifunctional/Multiphysical Composite Materials The course is self-contained and is designed in an interdisciplinary manner for graduate students in engineering, materials science, physics, and applied mathematics who are interested in methods to accelerate the laboratory analysis and design of new materials. Examples draw primarily from various mechanical, thermal, diffusive, and electromagnetic applications.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Manufacturing Systems Analysis, AMS Advanced Manufacturing Systems Analysis, AMS This course is designed to prepare students for technical leadership in industry. The objective is to provide insight and understanding on the main concepts and practices involved in analyzing, managing systems to deliver high quality, cost effectiveness and sustainable advantages.  The impact of this class on the Mechanical Engineering program includes delivering core production concepts and advanced skills that blend vision and advanced manufacturing elements. This course is highly recommended
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Orthopedic Biomechanics Advanced Orthopedic Biomechanics Students will learn the application of engineering concepts including statics, dynamics, optimization theory, composite beam theory, beam-on-elastic foundation theory, Hertz contact theory, and materials behavior. Topics will include forces and moments acting on human joints; composition and mechanical behavior of orthopedic biomaterials; design/analysis of artificial joint, spine, and fracture fixation prostheses; musculoskeletal tissues including bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, and muscle;
Mechanical Engineering^The Cell as a Machine The Cell as a Machine This course offers a modular and systems mechanobiology (or "machine") perspective of the cell. Two vitally important components of the cell machinery will be studied in depth: (1) the integrin-mediated focal adhesions system that enables the cell to adhere to, and communicate mechano-chemical signals with, the extracellular environment, and (2) the nuclear pore complex, a multi-protein gateway for traffic in and out of the nucleus that regulates gene expression and affects protein synthesis.
Mechanical Engineering^Heat and Mass Transport in Biomedical Engineering Heat and Mass Transport in Biomedical Engineering Fundamental processes of heat and mass transport in biological systems; organic molecules, cells, biological organs, whole animals. Derivation of mathematical models and discussion of experimental procedures. Applications to biomedical engineering.
Mechanical Engineering^Fluid Mechanics of Biological Systems Fluid Mechanics of Biological Systems Fluid mechanical aspects of various physiological systems, the circulatory, respiratory, and renal systems. Motion in large and small blood vessels. Pulsatile and peristaltic flows. Other biofluidmechanical flows: the ear, eye, etc. Instrumentation for fluid measurements in biological systems and for medical diagnosis and applications. Artificial devices for replacement of organs and/or functions, e.g. blood oxygenators, kidney dialysis machines, artificial hearts/circulatory assist devices.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Tissue Mechanics Advanced Tissue Mechanics The goal of this course is to provide a foundation for characterizing and understanding the mechanical behavior of load-bearing tissues. A variety of mechanics topics will be introduced, including anisotropic elasticity and failure, cellular solid theory, biphasic theory, and quasi-linear viscoelasticity (QLV) theory. Building from this theoretical basis, we will explore the constitutive behavior of a wide variety of biological tissues. After taking this course, students should have sufficient background
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Structural Aspects of Biomaterials Advanced Structural Aspects of Biomaterials This course covers the structure and mechanical functions of load bearing tissues and their replacements. Biocompatibility of biomaterials and host response to structural implants are examined. Quantitative treatment of biomechanical issues and constitutive relationships of materials are covered in order to design implants for structural function. Material selection for load bearing applications including reconstructive surgery, orthopedics, dentistry, and cardiology are addressed.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanobiology of the Cell: Dynamics of the Cytoskeleton and Nucleus Mechanobiology of the Cell: Dynamics of the Cytoskeleton and Nucleus This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum and statistical mechanics to understand micro- and nano-scale mechanobiological phenomena involved in the living cell with particular attention the nucleus and the cytoskelton as well as the interactions of the cell with the extracellular matrix and how these interactions may cause changes in cell architecture and biology, consequently leading to functional adaptation or pathological conditions.
Mechanical Engineering^Biomimetic Engineering -- Engineering from Biology Biomimetic Engineering -- Engineering from Biology Study of nature's solutions to specific problems with the aim of determining appropriate engineering analogs. Morphology, scaling, and design in organisms applied to engineering structures. Mechanical principles in nature and their application to engineering devices. Mechanical behavior of biological materials as governed by underlying microstructure, with the potential for synthesis into engineered materials. Trade-offs between redundancy and efficiency. Students will work in teams on projects
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to MEMS Design Introduction to MEMS Design Physics, fabrication, and design of micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS). Micro and nanofabrication processes, including silicon surface and bulk micromachining and non-silicon micromachining. Integration strategies and assembly processes. Microsensor and microactuator devices: electrostatic, piezoresistive, piezoelectric, thermal, magnetic transduction. Electronic position-sensing circuits and electrical and mechanical noise. CAD for MEMS. Design project is required.
Mechanical Engineering^Parametric and Optimal Design of MEMS Parametric and Optimal Design of MEMS Parametric design and optimal design of MEMS. Emphasis on design, not fabrication. Analytic solution of MEMS design problems to determine the dimensions of MEMS structures for specified function. Trade-off of various performance requirements despite conflicting design requirements. Structures include flexure systems, accelerometers, and rate sensors.
Mechanical Engineering^Precision Manufacturing Precision Manufacturing Introduction to precision engineering for manufacturing. Emphasis on design and performance of precision machinery for manufacturing. Topics include machine tool elements and structure, sources of error (thermal, static, dynamic, process related), precision machining processes and process models (diamond turning and abrasive (fixed and free) processes), sensors for process monitoring and control, metrology, actuators, machine design case studies and examples of precision component manufacture.
Mechanical Engineering^Polymer Engineering Polymer Engineering A survey of the structure and mechanical properties of advanced engineering polymers. Topics include rubber elasticity, viscoelasticity, mechanical properties, yielding, deformation, and fracture mechanisms of various classes of polymers. The course will discuss degradation schemes of polymers and long-term performance issues. The class will include polymer applications in bioengineering and medicine.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials This course covers elastic and plastic deformation under static and dynamic loads. Prediction and prevention of failure by yielding, fracture, fatigue, creep, corrosion, and wear. Basic elasticity and plasticity theories are discussed.
Mechanical Engineering^Deformation and Fracture of Engineering Materials Deformation and Fracture of Engineering Materials This course covers deformation and fracture behavior of engineering materials for both monotonic and cyclic loading conditions.
Mechanical Engineering^Tribology Tribology Surface interactions. Fundamentals of contact mechanics. Friction theories. Types of measurement of wear. Response of materials to surface tractions. Plastic deformation, void/crack nucleation and crack propagation. Delamination wear. Microstructural effects in wear processes. Mechanics of layered media. Solid film and boundary liquid film lubrication. Friction and wear of polymers and fiber-reinforced polymeric composites. Brief introduction to metal cutting and tool wear mechanisms.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Behavior of Composite Materials Mechanical Behavior of Composite Materials Response of composite materials (fiber and particulate-reinforced materials) to static, cyclic, creep and thermomechanical loading. Manufacturing process-induced variability, and residual stresses. Fatigue behavior,fracture mechanics and damage development. Role of the reinforcement-matrix interface in mechanical behavior. Environmental effects. Dimensional stability and thermal fatigue. Application to polymer, metal, ceramic, and carbon matrix composites.
Mechanical Engineering^Design of Basic Electro-Mechanical Devices Design of Basic Electro-Mechanical Devices Fundamental principles of magnetics, electro-magnetics, and magnetic materials as applied to design and operation of electro-mechanical devices. Type of device to be used in a particular application and dimensions of parts for the overall design will be discussed. Typical applications covered will be linear and rotary actuators, stepper motors, AC motors, and DC brush and brushless motors. A design project is required.
Mechanical Engineering^Real-Time Applications of Mini and Micro Computers Real-Time Applications of Mini and Micro Computers Mini and micro computers, operating in real time, have become ubiquitous components in engineering systems. The purpose of this course is to build competence in the engineering use of such systems through lectures stressing small computer structure, programming, and output/input operation, and through laboratory work with mini and micro computer systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Experiential Advanced Control Design I Experiential Advanced Control Design I Experience-based learning in the design of SISO and MIMO feedback controllers for linear systems. The student will master skills needed to apply linear control design and analysis tools to classical and modern control problems. In particular, the participant will be exposed to and develop expertise in two key control design technologies: frequency-domain control synthesis and time-domain optimization-based approach.
Mechanical Engineering^Experiential Advanced Control Design II Experiential Advanced Control Design II Experience-based learning in the design, analysis, and verification of automatic control systems. The course emphasizes the use of computer-aided design techniques through case studies and design tasks. The student will master skills needed to apply advanced model-based control analysis, design, and estimation to a variety of industrial applications. The role of these specific design methodologies within the larger endeavor of control design is also addressed.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Control Systems I Advanced Control Systems I Input-output and state space representation of linear continuous and discrete time dynamic systems. Controllability, observability, and stability. Modeling and identification. Design and analysis of single and multi-variable feedback control systems in transform and time domain. State observer. Feedforward/preview control. Application to engineering systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Control Systems II Advanced Control Systems II Linear Quadratic Optimal Control, Stochastic State Estimation, Linear Quadratic Gaussian Problem, Loop Transfer Recovery, Adaptive Control and Model Reference Adaptive Systems, Self Tuning Regulators, Repetitive Control, Application to engineering systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Multivariable Control System Design Multivariable Control System Design Analysis and synthesis techniques for multi-input (MIMO) control systems. Emphasis is on the effect that model uncertainty has on the design process.
Mechanical Engineering^Design of Microprocessor-Based Mechanical Systems Design of Microprocessor-Based Mechanical Systems This course provides preparation for the conceptual design and prototyping of mechanical systems that use microprocessors to control machine activities, acquire and analyze data, and interact with operators. The architecture of microprocessors is related to problems in mechanical systems through study of systems, including electro-mechanical components, thermal components, and a variety of instruments. Laboratory exercises lead through studies of different levels of software.
Mechanical Engineering^Control and Optimization of Distributed Parameters Systems Control and Optimization of Distributed Parameters Systems Distributed systems and PDE models of physical phenomena (propagation of waves, network traffic, water distribution, fluid mechanics, electromagnetism, blood vessels, beams, road pavement, structures, etc.). Fundamental solution methods for PDEs: separation of variables, self-similar solutions, characteristics, numerical methods, spectral methods. Stability analysis. Adjoint-based optimization. Lyapunov stabilization. Differential flatness. Viability control. Hamilton-Jacobi-based control.
Mechanical Engineering^Control of Nonlinear Dynamic Systems Control of Nonlinear Dynamic Systems Fundamental properties of nonlinear systems. Stability of nonlinear systems. Controller Design via Lyapunov methods. Equivalent Linearization methods including limit cycle prediction.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Micro/Nano Mechanical Systems Laboratory Advanced Micro/Nano Mechanical Systems Laboratory This hands-on laboratory course focuses on the mechanical engineering principles that underlie the design, fabricaton, and operation of micro/nanoscale mechanical systems, including devices made by nanowire/nanotube syntheses; photolithography/soft lithography; and molding processes. Each laboratory will have different focuses for basic understanding of MEMS/NEMS systems from prototype constructions to experimental testings using mechanical, electrical, or optical techniques.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Design and Automation Advanced Design and Automation This course will provide students with a solid understanding of smart products and the use of embedded microcomputers in products and machines. The course has two components: 1.) Formal lectures. Students receive a set of formal lectures on the design of smart machines and products that use embedded microcomputers. The materials cover machine components, actuators, sensors, basic electronic devices, embedded microprocessor systems and control, power transfer components, and mechanism design. 2.)
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Marine Structures I Advanced Marine Structures I This course introduces a probabilistic description of ocean waves and wave loads acting on marine structures. These topics are followed with discussion of structural strength and reliability analysis.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Marine Structures II Advanced Marine Structures II This course is concerned with the structural response of marine structures to environmental loads. Overall response of the structure as well as the behavior of its members under lateral and compressive loads are discussed.
Mechanical Engineering^Marine Hydrodynamics I Marine Hydrodynamics I Navier-Stokes Equations. Boundary-layer theory, laminar, and turbulent. Frictional resistance. Boundary layer over water surface. Separated flow modeling. Steady and unsteady flow. Momentum theorems. Three-dimensional water-wave theory. Formulation of wave resistance of ships. Michell's solution. Wave patterns. Applications.
Mechanical Engineering^Marine Hydrodynamics II Marine Hydrodynamics II Momentum analysis for bodies moving in a fluid. Added-mass theory. Matched asymptotic slender-body theory. Small bodies in a current. Theory of motion of floating bodies with and without forward speed. Radiation and diffraction potentials. Wave forces. Hydro-elasticity formulation. Memory effects in time domain. Second-order effects. Impact hydrodynamics.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Methods in Free-Surface Flows Advanced Methods in Free-Surface Flows Analytical and numerical methods in free-surface problems. Elements of inviscid external lifting and nonlifting flows. Analytical solutions in special coordinates systems. Integral-equation methods: formulations and implementations. Multiple-bodies interaction problems. Free-surface Green functions in two and three dimensions. Hybrid integral-equation methods. Finite-element formulations. Variational forms in time-harmonic flows. Finite-difference forms, stability, and accuracy. Boundary-fitted
Mechanical Engineering^Oceanic and Atmospheric Waves Oceanic and Atmospheric Waves Covers dynamics of wave propagation in the ocean and the atmosphere. Specifically, formulation and properties of waves over the surface of a homogenous fluid, interfacial waves in a two-/multi-layer density stratified fluid, and internal waves in a continuous stratification will be discussed.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Energy Conversion Principles Advanced Energy Conversion Principles Covers the fundamental principles of energy conversion processes, followed by development of theoretical and computational tools that can be used to analyze energy conversion processes. Also introduces the use of modern computational methods to model energy conversion performance characteristics of devices and systems. Performance features, sources of inefficiencies, and optimal design strategies are explored for a variety of applications.
Mechanical Engineering^Heat Conduction Heat Conduction Analytical and numerical methods for the determination of the conduction of heat in solids.
Mechanical Engineering^Heat Convection Heat Convection The transport of heat in fluids in motion; free and forced convection in laminar and turbulent flow over surfaces and within ducts.
Mechanical Engineering^Thermal Radiation Thermal Radiation Thermal radiation properties of gases, liquids, and solids; the calculation of radiant energy transfer.
Mechanical Engineering^Thermodynamics I Thermodynamics I Axiomatic formulation of macroscopic equilibrium thermodynamics. Quantum mechanical description of atomic and molecular structure. Statistical-mechanical evaluation of thermodynamic properties of gases, liquids, and solids. Elementary kinetic theory of gases and evaluation of transport properties.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Combustion Processes Advanced Combustion Processes Fundamentals of combustion, flame structure, flame speed, flammability, ignition, stirred reaction, kinetics and nonequilibrium processes, pollutant formation. Application to engines, energy production, and fire safety.
Mechanical Engineering^Combustion Combustion Combustion modeling. Multicomponent conservation equations with reactions. Laminar and turbulent deflagrations. Rankine-Hugoniot relations. Diffusion flames. Boundary layer combustion, ignition, and stability.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Combustion Advanced Combustion Critical analyses of combustion phenomenon. Conservation relations applied to reacting systems. Reactions are treated by both asymptotic and numerical methods. Real hydrocarbon kinetics are used; where available reduced kinetic mechanics are introduced. Flame propagation theory and experiments are discussed in detail for both laminar and turbulent flows.
Mechanical Engineering^Heat Transfer with Phase Change Heat Transfer with Phase Change Heat transfer associated with phase change processes. Topics include thermodynamics of phase change, evaporation, condensation, nucleation and bubble growth, two phase flow, convective boiling and condensation, melting and solidification.
Mechanical Engineering^Microscale Thermophysics and Heat Transfer Microscale Thermophysics and Heat Transfer This course introduces advanced statistical thermodynamics, nonequilibrium thermodynamics, and kinetic theory concepts used to analyze thermophysics of microscale systems and explores applications in which microscale transport plays an important role.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Fluid Mechanics I Advanced Fluid Mechanics I Introduces the foundations of fluid mechanics. Exact flow solutions are used to develop a physical insight of the fluid flow phenomena. Rigorous derivation of the equations of motion. Incompressible and compressible potential flows. Canonical viscous flows.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Fluid Mechanics II Advanced Fluid Mechanics II Develops a working knowledge of fluid mechanics by identifying the essential physical mechanism in complex canonical flow problems which leads to simplified yet accurate formulation. Boundary layers, creeping flows, rotational flows, rotating flows. Stability and transition, introduction to turbulence.
Mechanical Engineering^Hydrodynamic Stability and Instability Hydrodynamic Stability and Instability Discussions of linear and nonlinear instabilities in a variety of fluid flows: thermal convection, Rayleigh-Taylor flows, shearing flows, circular and cylindrical Couette flows (i.e., centrifugal instability). Use of the Landau equation, bifurcation diagrams, and energy methods for nonlinear flows.
Mechanical Engineering^Turbulence Turbulence Physics of turbulence: Summary of stability and transition. Description of turbulence phenomena. Tools for studying turbulence. Homogeneous turbulence, shear turbulence, rotating turbulence. Summary of engineering models. Discussion of recent advances.
Mechanical Engineering^Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics This course examines high-Reynolds number flows, including their stability, their waves, and the influence of rotating and stratification as applied to geophysical and astrophysical fluid dynamics as well as to engineering flows. Examples of problems studies include vortex dynamics in planetary atmospheres and protoplanetary disks, jet streams, and waves (Rossby, Poincare, inertial, internal gravity, and Kelvin) in the ocean and atmosphere.
Mechanical Engineering^Physicochemical Hydrodynamics Physicochemical Hydrodynamics An introduction to the hydrodynamics of capillarity and wetting. Balance laws and short-range forces. Dimensionless numbers, scaling and lubrication approximation. Rayleigh instability. Marangoni effect. The moving contact line. Wetting and short-range forces. The dynamic contact angle. Dewetting. Coating flows. Effect of surfactants and electric fields. Wetting of rough or porous surfaces. Contact angles for evaporating systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Oscillations in Linear Systems Oscillations in Linear Systems Response of discrete and continuous dynamical systems, damped and undamped, to harmonic and general time-dependent loading. Convolution integrals and Fourier and Laplace Transform methods. Lagrange's equations; Eigensolutions; Orthogonality; generalized coordinates; nonreciprocal and degenerate systems; Rayleigh quotient.
Mechanical Engineering^Random Oscillations of Mechanical Systems Random Oscillations of Mechanical Systems Random variables and random processes. Stationary, nonstationary, and ergodic proceses. Analysis of linear and nonlinear, discrete and continuous, mechanical systems under stationary and nonstationary excitations. Vehicle dynamics. Applications to failure analysis. Stochastic estimation and control and their applications to vibratory systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Dynamics Advanced Dynamics Review of Lagrangian dynamics. Legendre transform and Hamilton's equations, Cyclic coordinates, Canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, integrability. Dynamics of asymmetric systems. Approximation theory. Current topics in analytical dynamics.
Mechanical Engineering^Oscillations in Nonlinear Systems Oscillations in Nonlinear Systems Oscillations in nonlinear systems having one or two degrees of freedom. Qualitative and quantitative methods: graphical, iteration, perturbation, and asymptotic methods. Self-excited oscillations, limit cycles, and domains of attraction.
Mechanical Engineering^Statistical Mechanics of Elasticity Statistical Mechanics of Elasticity Introduction to statistical mechanics for engineers interested in the constitutive behavior of matter with a particular interest in continua. Systems of interest will be polymers and crystalline solids. Coverage includes introduction to statistical mechanics, ensembles, phase spaces, partitions functions, free energy, polymer chain statistics, polymer networks, harmonic and quasi-harmonic crystalline solids, limitations of classical methods and quantum mechanical influences.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to the Finite Element Method Introduction to the Finite Element Method Weighted-residual and variational methods of approximation. Canonical construction of finite element spaces. Formulation of element and global state equations. Applications to linear partial differential equations of interest in engineering and applied science.
Mechanical Engineering^Finite Element Methods in Nonlinear Continua Finite Element Methods in Nonlinear Continua A brief review of continuum mechanics. Consistent linearization of kinematical variables and balance laws. Incremental formulations of the equations of motion. Solution of the nonlinear field equations by Newton's method and its variants. General treatment of constraints. Applications to nonlinear material and kinematical modeling on continua.
Mechanical Engineering^Methods of Tensor Calculus and Differential Geometry Methods of Tensor Calculus and Differential Geometry Methods of tensor calculus and classical differential geometry. The tensor concept and the calculus of tensors, the Riemann-Christoffel tensor and its properties, Riemannian and Euclidean spaces. Geometry of a surface, formulas of Weingarten, and equations of Gauss and Codazzi.
Mechanical Engineering^Theory of Elasticity Theory of Elasticity Fundamentals and general theorems of the linear theory of elasticity (in three dimensions) and the formulation of static and dynamic boundary value problems. Application to torsion, flexure, and two-dimensional problems of plane strain, generalized plane stress, and bending of plates. Representation of basic field equations in terms of displacement potentials and stress functions. Some basic three-dimensional solutions.
Mechanical Engineering^Wave Propagation in Elastic Media Wave Propagation in Elastic Media Propagation of mechanical disturbances in unbounded and bounded media. Surface waves, wave reflection and transmission at interfaces and boundaries. Stress waves due to periodic and transient sources. Some additional topics may vary with instructor.
Mechanical Engineering^Nonlinear Theory of Elasticity Nonlinear Theory of Elasticity Fundamentals of nonlinear theory of elasticity. Exact solutions in elastostatics by inverse and semi-inverse methods. The method of successive approximations. Small deformations superposed on finite deformations. Nonlinear oscillations, shocks and acceleration waves, progressive waves and standing waves of finite amplitude, waves in pre-stressed solids.
Mechanical Engineering^Foundations of the Theory of Continuous Media Foundations of the Theory of Continuous Media A general development of thermodynamics of deformable media, entropy production, and related entropy inequalities. Thermomechanical response of dissipative media, including those for viscous fluids and nonlinear elastic solids. A discussion of invariance, internal constraints, material symmetry, and other special topics.
Mechanical Engineering^Surfaces of Discontinuity and Inhomogeneities in Deformable Continua Surfaces of Discontinuity and Inhomogeneities in Deformable Continua Finitely deforming thermo-mechanical media. Moving surfaces of discontinuity. Shock waves and acceleration waves in elastic materials. The Eshelby tensor and Eshelbian mechanics. Fracture. Microstructured continua.
Mechanical Engineering^Electrodynamics of Continuous Media Electrodynamics of Continuous Media This course presents the fundamentals of electromagnetic interactions in deformable continuous media. It develops the background necessary to understand various modern technologies involving MEMS devices, sensors and actuators, plasmas, and a wide range of additional phenomena. The emphasis of this course is on fundamentals, beginning with Maxwell's equations in vacuum, the ether relations and their extension to electromagnetic interactions in materials. The treatment is general within the limits
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Rheology Engineering Rheology Rheology is the study of the interaction between forces and the flow/deformation of materials. It deals with aspects of the mechanics of materials that are not covered in the standard curriculum, such as the response of viscoelastic fluids and solids, together with methods for modeling and simulating their response. Such materials exhibit a host of counterintuitive phenomena that call for nonlinear modeling and a close interaction between theory and experiment. This is a special-topics course for
Mechanical Engineering^Theory of Plasticity Theory of Plasticity Formulation of the theory of plasticity relative to loading surfaces in both strain space and stress space and associated loading criteria. Nonlinear constitutive equations for finitely deformed elastic-plastic materials. Discussion of strain-hardening and special cases. Applications.
Mechanical Engineering^Theory of Elastic Stability Theory of Elastic Stability Dynamic stability of elastic bodies. Small motion on finite deformation. Classical treatments of buckling problems. Snapthrough and other global stability problems. Stability theory based upon nonlinear three-dimensional theory of elasticity.
Mechanical Engineering^Theory of Shells Theory of Shells A direct formulation of a general theory of shells and plates based on the concept of Cosserat (or Directed) surfaces. Nonlinear constitutive equations for finitely deformed elastic shells. Linear theory and a special nonlinear theory with small strain accompanied by large or moderately large rotation. Applications.
Mechanical Engineering^Topics in Fluid Mechanics Topics in Fluid Mechanics Lectures on special topics which will be announced at the beginning of each semester that the course is offered. Topics may include transport and mixing, geophysical fluid dynamics, biofluid dynamics, oceanography, free surface flows, non-Newtonian fluid mechanics, among other possibilities.
Mechanical Engineering^Hybrid Systems and Intelligent Control Hybrid Systems and Intelligent Control Analysis of hybrid systems formed by the interaction of continuous time dynamics and discrete-event controllers. Discrete-event systems models and language descriptions. Finite-state machines and automata. Model verification and control of hybrid systems. Signal-to-symbol conversion and logic controllers. Adaptive, neural, and fuzzy-control systems. Applications to robotics and Intelligent Vehicle and Highway Systems (IVHS).
Mechanical Engineering^Interactive Device Design Interactive Device Design This course teaches concepts and skills required to design, prototype, and fabricate interactive devices -- that is, physical objects that intelligently respond to user input and enable new types of interactions.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Technical Communication: Proposals, Patents, and Presentations Advanced Technical Communication: Proposals, Patents, and Presentations This course will help the advanced Ph.D. student further develop critically important technical communication traits via a series of lectures, interactive workshops, and student projects that will address the structure and creation of effective research papers, technical reports, patents, proposals, business plans, and oral presentations. One key concept will be the emphasis on focus and clarity--achieved through critical thinking regarding objectives and context. Examples will be drawn primarily
Mechanical Engineering^Solid Modeling and CAD/CAM Fundamentals Solid Modeling and CAD/CAM Fundamentals Graduate survey of solid modeling research. Representations and algorithms for 3D solid geometry. Applications in design, analysis, planning, and manufacturing of mechanical parts, including CAD/CAM, reverse engineering, robotics, mold-making, and rapid prototyping.
Mechanical Engineering^Laser Processing and Diagnostics Laser Processing and Diagnostics The course provides a detailed account of laser interactions with materials in the context of advanced materials processing and diagnostics.
Mechanical Engineering^Green Product Development: Design for Sustainability Green Product Development: Design for Sustainability The focus of the course is management of innovation processes for sustainable products, from product definition to sustainable manufacturing and financial models. Using a project in which students will be asked to design and develop a product or service focused on sustainability, we will teach processes for collecting customer and user needs data, prioritizing that data, developing a product specification, sketching and building product prototypes, and interacting with the customer/community during
Mechanical Engineering^Sustainable Manufacturing Sustainable Manufacturing Sustainable design, manufacturing, and management as exercised by the enterprise is a poorly understood idea and one that is not intuitively connected to business value or engineering practice. This is especially true for the manufacturing aspects of most enterprises (tools, processes, and systems). This course will provide the basis for understanding (1) what comprises sustainable practices in for-profit enterprises, (2) how to practice and measure continuous improvement using sustainability thinking
Mechanical Engineering^Predictive Control for Linear and Hybrid Systems Predictive Control for Linear and Hybrid Systems Advanced optimization, polyhedra manipulation, and multiparametric programming. Invariant set theory. Analysis and design of constrained predictive controllers for linear systems. Computational oriented models of hybrid systems. Analysis and design of constrained predictive controllers for hybrid systems.
Mechanical Engineering^Innovation through Design Thinking Innovation through Design Thinking Designed for professionally-oriented graduate students, this course explores key concepts in design innovation based on the human-centered design approach called “design thinking.” Topics covered include human-centered design research, analysis of research to develop design principles, creativity techniques, user needs framing and strategic business modeling.
Mechanical Engineering^Life Cycle Thinking in Engineering Design Life Cycle Thinking in Engineering Design How do we design and manufacture greener products, and how do we know if they really are? This class both provides tools for sustainable design innovation and metrics to measure success. Students will use both creative and analytical skills, generating new ideas as well as evaluating designs with screening-level life cycle assessment.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Nano-Biology Introduction to Nano-Biology This course introduces graduate students in Mechanical Engineering to the nascent field of Nano-Biology. The course is comprised of both formal lectures and projects. Lectures will include an introduction to both molecular biology (components of cells, protein structure and function, DNA, gene regulation, etc.) and nanotechnology ("bottom up" and "top down" nanotechnologies), an overview of current instrumentation in biology, an in-depth description of the recent integration
Mechanical Engineering^Expert Systems in Mechanical Engineering Expert Systems in Mechanical Engineering Introduction to artificial intelligence and decision analysis in mechanical engineering. Fundamentals of analytic design, probability theory, failure analysis, risk assessment, and Bayesian and logical inference. Applications to expert systems in probabilistic mechanical engineering design and failure diagnostics. Use of automated influence diagrams to codify expert knowledge and to evaluate optimal design decisions.
Mechanical Engineering^System Identification System Identification This course is intended to provide a comprehensive treatment of both classical system identification and recent work in control-oriented system identification. Numerical, practical, and theoretical aspects will be covered. Topics treated include time and frequency domain methods, generalized parameter estimation, identification of structured non-linear systems, modeling uncertainty bounding, and state-space methods.
Mechanical Engineering^New Product Development: Design Theory and Methods New Product Development: Design Theory and Methods This course is aimed at developing the interdisciplinary skills required for successful product development in today's competitive marketplace. We expect students to be disciplinary experts in their own field (e.g., engineering, business). By bringing together multiple perspectives, we will learn how product development teams can focus their efforts to quickly create cost-effective products that exceed customers' expectations.
Mechanical Engineering^Dynamic Control of Robotic Manipulators Dynamic Control of Robotic Manipulators Dynamic and kinematic analysis of robotic manipulators. Sensors (position, velocity, force and vision). Actuators and power transmission lines. Direct drive and indirect drive. Point to point control. Straight and curved path following. Industrial practice in servo control. Applications of optimal linear quadratic control, preview control, nonlinear control, and direct/indirect adaptive controls. Force control and compliance control. Collision avoidance. Utilization of dynamic controls
Mechanical Engineering^Topics in Manufacturing Topics in Manufacturing Advanced topics in manufacturing research. Topics vary from year to year.
Mechanical Engineering^Plasmonic Materials Plasmonic Materials This course deals with fundamental aspects of plasmonic materials. The electromagnetic responses of those artificially constructed materials will be discussed. Physics of surface plasmons and dispersion engineering will be introduced. Resonant phenomena associated with the negative permittivity and permeability and the left-handed propagation will be presented. Methods of design, fabrication, and characterization of plasmonic materials will be discussed.
Mechanical Engineering^Interactive Device Design Interactive Device Design This course teaches concepts and skills required to design, prototype, and fabricate interactive devices -- that is, physical objects that intelligently respond to user input and enable new types of interactions.
Mechanical Engineering^Topics in Energy, Climate, and Sustainability Topics in Energy, Climate, and Sustainability Weekly lecture series featuring guest speakers from academia, industry, government, and civil society. Speakers will address cutting-edge topics involving novel technologies in energy and climate; the production, consumption, and economic exchange of energy resources and commodities; and energy and climate policy. Undergraduate and graduate students welcome.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Special Topics in Bioengineering Advanced Special Topics in Bioengineering The 292 series covers current topics of research interest in bioengineering and biomechanics. The course content may vary semester to semester. Check with the department for current term topics.
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Field Studies Engineering Field Studies Supervised experience relative to specific aspects of practice in engineering. Under guidance of a faculty member, the student will work in an internship in industry. Emphasis is to attain practical experience in the field.
Mechanical Engineering^Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Advanced studies in various subjects through special seminars on topics to be selected each year. Informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.
Mechanical Engineering^Individual Study or Research Individual Study or Research Investigations of advanced problems in mechanical engineering.
Mechanical Engineering^Teaching of Mechanical Engineering at the University Level Teaching of Mechanical Engineering at the University Level Weekly seminars and discussions on effective teaching methods. Educational objectives. Theories of learning. The lecture and alternative approaches. Use of media resources. Student evaluation. Laboratory instruction. Curricula in mechanical engineering. Practice teaching. This course is open to Teaching Assistants of Mechanical Engineering.
Chemistry^General Chemistry General Chemistry Stoichiometry of chemical reactions, quantum mechanical description of atoms, the elements and periodic table, chemical bonding, real and ideal gases, thermochemistry, introduction to thermodynamics and equilibrium, acid-base and solubility equilibria, introduction to oxidation-reduction reactions, introduction to chemical kinetics.
Chemistry^General Chemistry Laboratory General Chemistry Laboratory An experimental approach to chemical sciences with emphasis on developing fundamental, reproducible laboratory technique and a goal of understanding and achieving precision and accuracy in laboratory experiments. Proper use of laboratory equipment and standard wet chemical methods are practiced. Areas of investigations include chemical equilibria, spectroscopy, nanotechnology, green chemistry, and thermochemistry. Concurrent enrollment in 1A is recommended.
Chemistry^General Chemistry General Chemistry Introduction to chemical kinetics, electrochemistry, properties of the states of matter, binary mixtures, thermodynamic efficiency and the direction of chemical change, quantum mechanical description of bonding introduction to spectroscopy. Special topics: Research topics in modern chemistry and biochemistry, chemical engineering.
Chemistry^General Chemistry General Chemistry Stoichiometry of chemical reactions, quantum mechanical description of atoms, the elements and periodic table, chemical bonding, real and ideal gases, thermochemistry, introduction to thermodynamics and equilibrium, acid-base and solubility equilibria, introduction to oxidation-reduction reactions, introduction to chemical kinetics. This course is web-based.
Chemistry^Chemical Structure and Reactivity Chemical Structure and Reactivity Introduction to organic chemical structures, bonding, and chemical reactivity. The organic chemistry of alkanes, alkyl halides, alcohols, alkenes, alkynes, and organometallics.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Laboratory Organic Chemistry Laboratory Introduction to the theory and practice of methods used in the organic chemistry laboratory. An emphasis is placed on the separation and purification of organic compounds. Techniques covered will include extraction, distillation, sublimation, recrystalization, and chromatography. Detailed discussions and applications of infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy will be included.
Chemistry^Chemical Structure and Reactivity Chemical Structure and Reactivity Conjugation, aromatic chemistry, carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amines, carboxylic acids, amino acids, peptides, proteins, and nucleic acid chemistry. Ultraviolet spectroscopy and mass spectrometry will be introduced.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Laboratory Organic Chemistry Laboratory The synthesis and purification of organic compounds will be explored. Natural product chemistry will be introduced. Advanced spectroscopic methods including infrared, ultraviolet, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and mass spectrometry will be used to analyze products prepared and/or isolated. Qualitative analysis of organic compounds will be covered.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Laboratory Organic Chemistry Laboratory Introduction to the theory and practice of methods used in the organic chemistry laboratory. An emphasis is placed on the separation and purification of organic compounds. Techniques covered will include extraction, distillation, sublimation, recrystalization, and chromatography. Detailed discussions and applications of infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy will be included.
Chemistry^General Chemistry and Quantitative Analysis General Chemistry and Quantitative Analysis This series is intended for majors in physical and biological sciences and in engineering. It presents the foundation principles of chemistry, including stoichiometry, ideal and real gases, acid-base and solubility equilibria, oxidation-reduction reactions, thermochemistry, entropy, nuclear chemistry and radioactivity, the atoms and elements, the periodic table, quantum theory, chemical bonding, molecular structure, chemical kinetics, and descriptive chemistry. Examples and applications will be
Chemistry^General Chemistry and Quantitative Analysis General Chemistry and Quantitative Analysis Series is intended for majors in physical and biological sciences and engineering. It presents the foundation principles of chemistry, including stoichiometry, ideal and real gases, acid-base and solubility equilibria, oxidation-reduction reactions, thermochemistry, entropy, nuclear chemistry and radioactivity, the atoms and elements, the periodic table, quantum theory, chemical bonding, molecular structure, chemical kinetics, and descriptive chemistry. Examples and applications are drawn from diverse
Chemistry^Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry An introduction to analytical and bioanalytical chemistry including background in statistical analysis of data, acid-base equilibria, electrochemical, spectrometric, and chromatographic methods of analysis and some advanced topics in bioanalytical chemistry such as micro-fluidics, bioassay techniques, and enzymatic biosensors.
Chemistry^Supplementary Work in Lower Division Chemistry Supplementary Work in Lower Division Chemistry Students with partial credit in lower division chemistry courses may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit under this heading.
Chemistry^Introduction to Research and Study in the College of Chemistry Introduction to Research and Study in the College of Chemistry Introduces freshmen to research activities and programs of study in the College of Chemistry. Includes lectures by faculty, an introduction to college library and computer facilities, the opportunity to meet alumni and advanced undergraduates in an informal atmosphere, and discussion of college and campus resources.
Chemistry^Supervised Group Study Supervised Group Study Group study of selected topics.
Chemistry^Communicating Chemistry Communicating Chemistry For undergraduate and graduate students interested in improving their ability to communicate their scientific knowledge by teaching chemistry in elementary schools. The course will combine instruction in inquiry-based chemistry teaching methods and learning pedagogy with 10 weeks of supervised teaching experience in a local school classroom. Thus, students will practice communicating scientific knowledge and receive mentoring on how to improve their presentations. Approximately three hours per week
Chemistry^Inorganic Chemistry in Living Systems Inorganic Chemistry in Living Systems The basic principles of metal ions and coordination chemistry applied to the study of biological systems.
Chemistry^Advanced Inorganic Chemistry Advanced Inorganic Chemistry The chemistry of metals and nonmetals including the application of physical chemical principles.
Chemistry^Advanced Inorganic Chemistry Advanced Inorganic Chemistry The chemistry of metals and nonmetals including the application of physical chemical principles.
Chemistry^Instrumental Methods in Analytical Chemistry Instrumental Methods in Analytical Chemistry Principles, instrumentation and analytical applications of atomic spectroscopies, mass spectrometry, separations, electrochemistry and micro-characterization. Discussion of instrument design and capabilities as well as real-world problem solving with an emphasis on bioanalytical, environmental, and forensic applications. Hands-on laboratory work using modern instrumentation, emphasizing independent projects involving real-life samples and problem solving.
Chemistry^Inorganic Synthesis and Reactions Inorganic Synthesis and Reactions The preparation of inorganic compounds using vacuum line, air-and moisture-exclusion, electrochemical, high-pressure, and other synthetic techniques. Kinetic and mechanistic studies of inorganic compounds.
Chemistry^General Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Laboratory General Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Laboratory Experimental techniques of biochemistry and molecular biology, designed to accompany the lectures in Molecular and Cell Biology 100B and 110.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Organic Chemistry A study of all aspects of fundamental organic chemistry, including nomenclature, chemical and physical properties, reactions and syntheses of the major classes of organic compounds. The study includes theoretical aspects, reaction mechanisms, multistep syntheses, and the chemistry of polycyclic and heterocyclic compounds. This course is more extensive and intensive than 3A-3B and includes a greater emphasis on reaction mechanisms and multistep syntheses. 112A (F); 112B (SP)
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Organic Chemistry A study of all aspects of fundamental organic chemistry, including nomenclature, chemical and physical properties, reactions and syntheses of the major classes of organic compounds. The study includes theoretical aspects, reaction mechanisms, multistep syntheses, and the chemistry of polycyclic and heterocyclic compounds. This course is more extensive and intensive than 3A-3B and includes a greater emphasis on reaction mechanisms and multistep syntheses. 112A (F); 112B (SP)
Chemistry^Advanced Mechanistic Organic Chemistry Advanced Mechanistic Organic Chemistry Advanced topics in mechanistic and physical organic chemistry typically including kinetics, reactive intermediates, substitution reactions, linear free energy relationships, orbital interactions and orbital symmetry control of reactions, isotope effects, and photochemistry.
Chemistry^Advanced Synthetic Organic Chemistry Advanced Synthetic Organic Chemistry Advanced topics in synthetic organic chemistry with a focus on selectivity. Topics include reductions, oxidations, enolate chemistry and the aldol reaction, reactions of non-stablized anions, olefination reactions, pericyclic reactions and application to the synthesis of complex structures.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry--Advanced Laboratory Methods Organic Chemistry--Advanced Laboratory Methods Advanced synthetic methods, chemical and spectroscopic structural methods, designed as a preparation for experimental research.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry Kinetic, potential, and total energy of particles and forces between them; principles of quantum theory, including one-electron and many-electron atoms and its applications to chemical bonding, intermolecular interactions, and elementary spectroscopy.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry Statistical mechanics, thermodynamics, equilibrium and applications to chemical systems: states of matter, solutions and solvation, chemical kinetics, molecular dynamics, and molecular transport.
Chemistry^Quantum Mechanics and Spectroscopy Quantum Mechanics and Spectroscopy Postulates and methods of quantum mechanics and group theory applied to molecular structure and spectra.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Laboratory Physical Chemistry Laboratory Experiments in thermodynamics, kinetics, molecular structure, and general physical chemistry.
Chemistry^Biophysical Chemistry Biophysical Chemistry The weekly one-hour discussion is for problem solving and the application of calculus in physical chemistry. Molecular structure, intermolecular forces and interactions, biomolecular spectroscopy, high-resolution structure determinations.
Chemistry^Biophysical Chemistry: Physical Principles and the Molecules of Life Biophysical Chemistry: Physical Principles and the Molecules of Life Thermodynamic and kinetic concepts applied to understanding the chemistry and structure of biomolecules (proteins, DNA, and RNA). Molecular distributions, reaction kinetics, enzyme kinetics. Bioenergetics, energy transduction, and motor proteins. Electrochemical potential, membranes, and ion channels.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology Chemical Biology One-semester introduction to biochemistry, aimed toward chemistry and chemical biology majors.
Chemistry^The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass After an introduction to the different aspects of our global energy consumption, the course will focus on the role of biomass. The course will illustrate how the global scale of energy guides the biomass research. Emphasis will be placed on the integration of the biological aspects (crop selection, harvesting, storage and distribution, and chemical composition of biomass) with the chemical aspects to convert biomass to energy. The course aims to engage students in state-of-the-art research.
Chemistry^Nuclear Chemistry Nuclear Chemistry Radioactivity, fission, nuclear models and reactions, nuclear processes in nature. Computer methods will be introduced.
Chemistry^Radiochemical Methods in Nuclear Technology and Forensics Radiochemical Methods in Nuclear Technology and Forensics Experimental illustrations of the interrelation between chemical and nuclear science and technology and nuclear forensics; radioactive decay and counting techniques; nuclear spectroscopy; fundamental radiochemical techniques; radiochemical separations techniques; tracers; activation analysis; forensic applications of radiochemistry; fusion, fission and nuclear reactors.
Chemistry^Supplementary Work in Upper Division Chemistry Supplementary Work in Upper Division Chemistry Students with partial credit in upper division chemistry courses may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit under this heading.
Chemistry^Introduction to Materials Chemistry Introduction to Materials Chemistry The application of basic chemical principles to problems in materials discovery, design, and characterization will be discussed. Topics covered will include inorganic solids, nanoscale materials, polymers, and biological materials, with specific focus on the ways in which atomic-level interactions dictate the bulk properties of matter.
Chemistry^Biochemical Engineering Laboratory Biochemical Engineering Laboratory Laboratory techniques for the cultivation of microorganisms in batch and continuous reactions. Enzymatic conversion processes. Recovery of biological products.
Chemistry^Polymer Science and Technology Polymer Science and Technology An interdisciplinary course on the synthesis, characterization, and properties of polymer materials. Emphasis on the molecular origin of properties of polymeric materials and technological applications. Topics include single molecule properties, polymer mixtures and solutions, melts, glasses, elastomers, and crystals. Experiments in polymer synthesis, characterization, and physical properties.
Chemistry^Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics Laboratory Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics Laboratory Fluid dynamics, radiative transfer, and the kinetics, spectroscopy, and measurement of atmospherically relevant species are explored through laboratory experiments, numerical simulations, and field observations.
Chemistry^Quantum Information Science and Technology Quantum Information Science and Technology This multidisciplinary course provides an introduction to fundamental conceptual aspects of quantum mechanics from a computational and informational theoretic perspective, as well as physical implementations and technological applications of quantum information science. Basic sections of quantum algorithms, complexity, and cryptography, will be touched upon, as well as pertinent physical realizations from nanoscale science and engineering.
Chemistry^Individual Study for Advanced Undergraduates Individual Study for Advanced Undergraduates All properly qualified students who wish to pursue a problem of their own choice, through reading or nonlaboratory study, may do so if their proposed project is acceptable to the member of the staff with whom they wish to work.
Chemistry^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis A senior honors thesis is written in consultation with the student’s faculty research advisor. This is a required course for students wishing to graduate with honors in Chemistry or Chemical Biology.
Chemistry^Research for Advanced Undergraduates Research for Advanced Undergraduates Students may pursue original research under the direction of one of the members of the staff.
Chemistry^Special Laboratory Study Special Laboratory Study Special laboratory work for advanced undergraduates.
Chemistry^Field Study in Chemistry Field Study in Chemistry Supervised experience in off-campus organizations relevant to specific aspects and applications of chemistry. Written report required at the end of the term. Course does not satisfy unit or residence requirements for the bachelor's degree.
Chemistry^Chemistry Fundamentals Chemistry Fundamentals Review of bonding, structure, stereochemistry, conformation, thermodynamics and kinetics, and arrow-pushing formalisms.
Chemistry^Fundamentals of Inorganic Chemistry Fundamentals of Inorganic Chemistry Review of bonding, structure, MO theory, thermodynamics, and kinetics.
Chemistry^Structure Analysis by X-Ray Diffraction Structure Analysis by X-Ray Diffraction The theory and practice of modern, single-crystal X-ray diffraction. Groups of four students determine the crystal and molecular structure of newly synthesized materials from the College of Chemistry. The laboratory work involves the mounting of crystals and initial evaluation by X-ray diffraction film techniques, the collection of intensity data by automated diffractometer procedures, and structure analysis and refinement.
Chemistry^Heterocyclic Chemistry Heterocyclic Chemistry Advanced topics in organic chemistry with a focus on the reactivity and synthesis of aromatic heterocycles. Classic and modern methods for the synthesis of indoles, pyridines, furans, pyrroles, and quinolines will be covered, as well as complex, multi-heteroatom ring systems. Applications to medicinal and bioorganic chemistry will be included where appropriate.
Chemistry^Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics A rigorous presentation of classical thermodynamics followed by an introduction to statistical mechanics with the application to real systems.
Chemistry^Statistical Mechanics Statistical Mechanics Principles of statistical mechanics and applications to complex systems.
Chemistry^Advanced Quantum Mechanics Advanced Quantum Mechanics Introduction, one dimensional problems, matrix mechanics, approximation methods.
Chemistry^Advanced Quantum Mechanics Advanced Quantum Mechanics Time dependence, interaction of matter with radiation, scattering theory. Molecular and many-body quantum mechanics.
Chemistry^Spectroscopy Spectroscopy This course presents a survey of experimental and theoretical methods of spectroscopy, and group theory as used in modern chemical research. The course topics include experimental methods, classical and quantum descriptions of the interaction of radiation and matter. Qualitative and quantitative aspects of the subject are illustrated with examples including application of linear and nonlinear spectroscopies to the study of molecular structure and dynamics and to quantitative analysis. This course
Chemistry^Chemical Kinetics Chemical Kinetics Deduction of mechanisms of complex reactions. Collision and transition state theory. Potential energy surfaces. Unimolecular reaction rate theory. Molecular beam scattering studies.
Chemistry^Protein Chemistry, Enzymology, and Bio-organic Chemistry Protein Chemistry, Enzymology, and Bio-organic Chemistry The topics covered will be chosen from the following: protein structure; protein-protein interactions; enzyme kinetics and mechanism; enzyme design. Intended for graduate students in chemistry, biochemistry, and molecular and cell biology.
Chemistry^Green Chemistry: An Interdisciplonary Approach to Sustainability Green Chemistry: An Interdisciplonary Approach to Sustainability Meeting the challenge of global sustainability will require interdisciplinary approaches to research and education, as well as the integration of this new knowledge into society, policymaking, and business. Green Chemistry is an intellectual framework created to meet these challenges and guide technological development. It encourages the design and production of safer and more sustainable chemicals and products.
Chemistry^Energy Solutions: Carbon Capture and Sequestration Energy Solutions: Carbon Capture and Sequestration After a brief overview of the chemistry of carbon dioxide in the land, ocean, and atmosphere, the course will survey the capture and sequestration of CO2 from anthropogenic sources. Emphasis will be placed on the integration of materials synthesis and unit operation design, including the chemistry and engineering aspects of sequestration. The course primarily addresses scientific and engineering challenges and aims to engage students in state-of-the-art research in global energy challenges.
Chemistry^The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass The Berkeley Lectures on Energy: Energy from Biomass After an introduction to the different aspects of our global energy consumption, the course will focus on the role of biomass. The course will illustrate how the global scale of energy guides the biomass research. Emphasis will be places on the integration of the biological aspects (crop selection, harvesting, storage, and distribution, and chemical composition of biomass) with the chemical aspects to convert biomass to energy. The course aims to engage students in state-of-art research.
Chemistry^Advanced Nuclear Structure and Reactions Advanced Nuclear Structure and Reactions Selected topics on nuclear structure and nuclear reactions.
Chemistry^Introduction to Bonding Theory Introduction to Bonding Theory An introduction to group theory, symmetry, and representations as applied to chemical bonding.
Chemistry^Inorganic Spectroscopy Inorganic Spectroscopy The theory of vibrational analysis and spectroscopy as applied to inorganic compounds.
Chemistry^Coordination Chemistry I Coordination Chemistry I Structure and bonding, synthesis, and reactions of the d-transition metals and their compounds.
Chemistry^Coordination Chemistry II Coordination Chemistry II Synthesis, structure analysis, and reactivity patterns in terms of symmetry orbitals.
Chemistry^Organometallic Chemistry I Organometallic Chemistry I An introduction to organometallics, focusing on structure, bonding, and reactivity.
Chemistry^Organometallic Chemistry II Organometallic Chemistry II Applications of organometallic compounds in synthesis with an emphasis on catalysis.
Chemistry^Materials Chemistry I Materials Chemistry I Introduction to the descriptive crystal chemistry and electronic band structures of extended solids.
Chemistry^Materials Chemistry II Materials Chemistry II General solid state synthesis and characterization techniques as well as a survey of important physical phenomena including optical, electrical, and magnetic properties.
Chemistry^Materials Chemistry III Materials Chemistry III Introduction to surface catalysis, organic solids, and nanoscience. Thermodynamics and kinetics of solid state diffusion and reaction will be covered.
Chemistry^Bioinorganic Chemistry Bioinorganic Chemistry A survey of the roles of metals in biology, taught as a tutorial involving class presentations.
Chemistry^Reaction Mechanisms Reaction Mechanisms Advanced methods for studying organic reaction mechanisms. Topics include kinetic isotope effects, behavior of reactive intermediates, chain reactions, concerted reactions, molecular orbital theory and aromaticity, solvent and substituent effects, linear free energy relationships, photochemistry.
Chemistry^Organic Reactions I Organic Reactions I Features of the reactions that comprise the vocabulary of synthetic organic chemistry.
Chemistry^Organic Reaction II Organic Reaction II More reactions that are useful to the practice of synthetic organic chemistry.
Chemistry^Organic Reactions III Organic Reactions III This course will consider further reactions with an emphasis on pericyclic reactions such as cycloadditions, electrocyclizations, and sigmatropic rearrangements.
Chemistry^Metals in Organic Synthesis Metals in Organic Synthesis Transition metal-mediated reactions occupy a central role in asymmetric catalysis and the synthesis of complex molecules. This course will describe the general principles of transition metal reactivity, coordination chemistry, and stereoselection. This module will also emphasize useful methods for the analysis of these reactions.
Chemistry^Synthetic Design I Synthetic Design I This course will describe the application of modern reactions to the total synthesis of complex target molecules. Natural products, such as alkaloids, terpenes, or polypropionates, as well as theoretically interesting "non-natural" molecules will be covered.
Chemistry^Synthetic Design II Synthetic Design II The principles of retrosynthetic analysis will be laid down and the chemistry of protecting groups will be discussed. Special attention will be given to the automated synthesis of biopolymers such as carbohydrates, peptides, and proteins, as well as nucleic acids.
Chemistry^Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Theory and Application Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Theory and Application The theory behind practical nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and a survey of its applications to chemical research.
Chemistry^Mass Spectrometry Mass Spectrometry Principles, instrumentation, and application in mass spectrometry, including ionization methods, mass analyzers, spectral interpretation, multidimensional methods (GC/MS, HPLC/MS, MS/MS), with emphasis on small organic molcules and bioanalytical applications (proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, noncovalent complexes); this will include the opportunity to be trained and checked out on several open-access mass spectrometers.
Chemistry^Advanced Biophysical Chemistry I Advanced Biophysical Chemistry I Underlying principles and applications of methods for biophysical analysis of biological macromolecules.
Chemistry^Advanced Biophysical Chemistry II Advanced Biophysical Chemistry II More applications of methods for biophysical analysis of biological macromolecules.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology I - Structure, Synthesis and Function of Biomolecules Chemical Biology I - Structure, Synthesis and Function of Biomolecules This course will present the structure of proteins, nucleic acids, and oligosaccharides from the perspective of organic chemistry. Modern methods for the synthesis and purification of these molecules will also be presented.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology II - Enzyme Reaction Mechanisms Chemical Biology II - Enzyme Reaction Mechanisms This course will focus on the principles of enzyme catalysis. The course will begin with an introduction of the general concepts of enzyme catalysis which will be followed by detailed examples that will examine the chemistry behind the reactions and the three-dimensional structures that carry out the transformations.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology III - Contemporary Topics in Chemical Biology Chemical Biology III - Contemporary Topics in Chemical Biology This course will build on the principles discussed in Chemical Biology I and II. The focus will consist of case studies where rigorous chemical approaches have been brought to bear on biological questions. Potential subject areas will include signal transduction, photosynthesis, immunology, virology, and cancer. For each topic, the appropriate bioanalytical techniques will be emphasized.
Chemistry^Bio X-Ray I Bio X-Ray I Theory and application of X-ray crystallography to biomacromolecules.
Chemistry^Bio NMR I Bio NMR I Fundamentals of multidimensional NMR spectroscopy (including use of the density matrix for analysis of spin response to pulse sequences) and applications of multidimensional NMR in probing structure, interactions, and dynamics of biological molecules will be described.
Chemistry^Bio NMR II Bio NMR II Triple resonance methods for determination of protein and nucleic acid resonance assignments, and for generation of structural restraints (distances, angles, H-bonds, etc.). Methods for calculating biomolecular structures from NMR data and the quality of such structures will be discussed.
Chemistry^Seminars for Graduate Students Seminars for Graduate Students In addition to the weekly Graduate Research Conference and weekly seminars on topics of interest in biophysical, organic, physical, nuclear, and inorganic chemistry, there are group seminars on specific fields of research. Seminars will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Chemistry^Research for Graduate Students Research for Graduate Students The facilities of the laboratory are available at all times to graduate students pursuing original investigations toward an advanced degree at this University. Such work is ordinarily in collaboration with a member of the staff.
Chemistry^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Chemistry Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Chemistry Discussion, curriculum development, class observation, and practice teaching in chemistry.
Chemistry^Pre-High School Chemistry Classroom Immersion Pre-High School Chemistry Classroom Immersion Provides training and opportunity for graduate students to make presentations in local public schools. Training ensures that presenters are aware of scientific information mandated by the State of California for particular grade levels, and that presentations are intellectually stimulating, relevant to the classroom students' interests, and age-appropriate. Time commitment an average of two to three hours/week, but actual time spent is concentrated during preparation and classroom delivery of presentations
Chemistry^Undergraduate Lab Instruction Undergraduate Lab Instruction Tutoring of students in 1AL and 1B laboratory. Students attend one hour of the regular GSI preparatory meeting and hold one office hour per week to answer questions about laboratory assignments.
Chemistry^Undergraduate Chemistry Instruction Undergraduate Chemistry Instruction Tutoring of students in 1A-1B. Students attend a weekly meeting on tutoring methods at the Student Learning Center and attend 1A-1B lectures.
Chemistry^Chemistry 3 Lab Assistant Chemistry 3 Lab Assistant Undergraduate organic lab assistants help in the teaching of the 3AL and 3BL. Each week students attend a laboratory preparation meeting for one hour, assist in the laboratory section for four hours, and help in the development of experiments for one hour.
Chemistry^Undergraduate Chemistry Course Instruction Undergraduate Chemistry Course Instruction Tutoring of students enrolled in an undergraduate chemistry course.
Chemistry^Supervised Instruction of Chemistry Scholars Supervised Instruction of Chemistry Scholars Tutoring of students in the College of Chemistry Scholars Program who are enrolled in general or organic chemistry. Students attend a weekly meeting with instructors.
Chemistry^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Chemistry Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Chemistry Discussion, curriculum development, class observation, and practice teaching in chemistry.
Architecture^Introduction to Visual Representation and Drawing Introduction to Visual Representation and Drawing Introductory studio course: theories of representation and the use of several visual means, including freehand drawing and digital media, to analyze and convey ideas regarding the environment. Topics include contour, scale, perspective, color, tone, texture, and design.
Architecture^Introduction to Design Introduction to Design Introduction to design concepts and conventions of graphic representation and model building as related to the study of architecture, landscape architecture, urban design, and city planning. Students draw in plan, section, elevation, axonometric, and perspective and are introduced to digital media. Design projects address concepts of order, site analysis, scale, structure, rhythm, detail, culture, and landscape.
Architecture^Special Group Study Special Group Study This is a special topics course intended to fulfill the individual interests of students, and provide a vehicle for professors to instruct students based on new and innovative developments in the field of architecture.
Architecture^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Architecture^Fundamentals of Architectural Design Fundamentals of Architectural Design Introductory courses in the design of buildings. Problems emphasize conceptual strategies of form and space, site relationships and social, technological and environmental determinants. 100A focuses on the conceptual design process.
Architecture^Fundamentals of Architectural Design Fundamentals of Architectural Design Introductory courses in the design of buildings. Problems emphasize conceptual strategies of form and space, site relationships and social, technological and environmental determinants. 100B stresses tectonics, materials, and energy considerations. Studio work is supplemented by lectures, discussions, readings and field trips.
Architecture^Architectural Design III Architectural Design III This is a studio course in architectural design. Students work on individual and group design projects that build on topics from Architecture 100B with additional integration of conditions pertinent to architectural production that may include architectural precedents, context, landscape and urban issues, envelope, performance, structure, and tectonics in the design of buildings.
Architecture^Architectural Design IV Architectural Design IV Students work on individual and/or group design projects that build on topics from previous studios with additional integration of conditions pertinent to architectural production that may include architectural precedents, context, landscape and urban issues, envelope, structure, and tectonics in the design of buildings. It may also include relevent and pertinent social, cultural, and technological issues facing architecture and design.
Architecture^Case Studies in Architecture Case Studies in Architecture Problems in the design of buildings of intermediate complexity. Each section deals with a selected topic and concentrates on developing conceptual strategies in the analysis and design of buildings: internal spatial relationships, material, form, tectonics, social and environmental considerations and built landscapes. Studio work is supplemented by lectures, discussions, readings, and field trips.
Architecture^Capstone Project Preparation Seminar Capstone Project Preparation Seminar This course is a course in architectural research methods with an emphasis on collaborative work. Students will work on individual facets of a collective topic of critical importance to the contemporary discipline of architecture within areas of faculty expertise. These include: architectural history and theory, structures, materials and methods of construction, building performance, energy and environment, and social factors and human behavior in architecture and the environment. The goal of Capstone
Architecture^Architecture Capstone Project Architecture Capstone Project Through individual and collective efforts, students will address topics selected in the previous semester under the guidance of faculty mentors. Topics in the field which may serve as a basis for capstone projects include: the history and theory of architecture; structures; the materials and methods of construction; building performance; energy and the environment; and social factors and human behavior. This course is aimed at students who wish to strengthen their understanding of the research methods
Architecture^Deep Green Design Deep Green Design This course explores the issues and practices of green architectural design through critical readings of seminal and current texts, lectures, films, field trips and projects that use both design and analysis as means of inquiry.The course examines varied approaches to sustainable design including using nature and wilderness as models, biophilia, biomimicry, material sources and reuse, accounting systems such as LEED, Zero Net Carbon and the 2030 Challenge, and the Living Building Challenge.
Architecture^Introduction to the Practice of Architecture Introduction to the Practice of Architecture Introduction to the business of architecture including client, developer and contractor relations, design proposals, competitions, and other marketing approaches as well as ethical issues of professional practice.
Architecture^Architectural Internship Architectural Internship An intensive and structured exposure to the professional practice, using the resources of practicing architects' offices as the "laboratory." The seminar discussion focus on understanding how design happens, how projects are managed and how buildings are constructed.
Architecture^Special Topics in Architectural Design Special Topics in Architectural Design Selected topics in the theories and conceopts of architectural design. For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^The Social and Cultural Basis of Design The Social and Cultural Basis of Design This course focuses on the significance of the physical environment for citizens and future design professionals. This course is an introduction to the field of human-environment studies, taught from an American Cultures perspective. Its objectives include: 1) being able to use the concepts in person-environment relations, 2) understanding how these concepts vary by subculture, primarily Anglo-, Hispanic-, and Chinese-American, 3) learning to use the methodological skills needed to conduct architectural
Architecture^Housing: An International Survey Housing: An International Survey Introduction to international housing from the Architectural and City Planning perspective. Housing issues (social, cultural, and policy) ranging from micro-scale (house) to macro-scale (city) presented with a comparison of housing situations in developed and developing countries.
Architecture^Special Topics in the Social and Cultural Basis of Design Special Topics in the Social and Cultural Basis of Design Selected topics in the social and cultural basis of design. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Principles of Computer Aided Architectural Design Principles of Computer Aided Architectural Design This course introduces students to Architecture's New Media; why and how computers are being used in architecture, and what are their current and expected impacts on the discipline and practice of architecture. Topics include presentation and re-presentation (including sketching, drafting, modeling, animating, and rendering); generating design solutions (including generative systems, expert systems, genetic algorithms, and neural networks); evaluation and prediction (using examples from structures
Architecture^2-D Computer Technology 2-D Computer Technology The course provides students with practical hands-on experience in using professional architectural drafting software (e.g., Autocad). The course covers the process of creating, manipulating, and communicating through digital drawings.
Architecture^3-D Computer Technology 3-D Computer Technology The course provides students with practical hands-on experience in using professional architectural modeling software (e.g., 3DStudioMax, Maya, Rhino, etc.). The course covers the process of creating, manipulating, and communicating through digital architectural models.
Architecture^3-D Computer Technology 3-D Computer Technology The course provides students with practical hands-on experience in using professional architectural modeling software (e.g., 3DStudioMax, Maya, Rhino, etc.). The course covers the process of creating, manipulating, and communicating through digital architectural models.
Architecture^Workshop in Designing Virtual Places Workshop in Designing Virtual Places This course introduces students to designing web-accessible, Multi User, Virtual Environments (MUVEs), inhabited through avatars. Such worlds are used in video games and web-based applications, and are assuming their role as alternative 'places' to physical spaces, where people shop, learn, are entertained, and socialize. Virtual worlds are designed according to the same principles that guide the design of physical spaces, with allowances made for the absence of gravity and other laws of nature.
Architecture^Special Topics in Digital Design Theories and Methods Special Topics in Digital Design Theories and Methods Topics cover advanced and research-related issues in digital design and New Media, related to architecture. For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Introduction to Architectural Design Theory and Criticism This class introduces students to the history and practice of design theory from the late 19th century to the present, with emphasis on developments of the last four decades. Readings and lectures explore specific constellations of theory and practice in relation to changing social and historical conditions. The course follows the rise of modernist design thinking, with particular emphasis on the growing influence of technical rationality across multiple fields in the post World War II period. Systematic
Architecture^Architectures of Globalization: Contested Spaces of Global Culture Architectures of Globalization: Contested Spaces of Global Culture This seminar examines the relationship between architecture and the processes associated with globalization. The social and spatial changes connected to the global economic restructuring of the last four decades are explored in relation to disctinctive national conditions and their connection to historical forces such as colonization and imperialism. Theoretical arguments about international urban political economy, uneven development, deindustrialization, and the growth of tourism and service industries
Architecture^The Literature of Space The Literature of Space The concept of space as it is applied to the fields of architecture, geography and urbanism can be understood as a barometer of the condition that we call "modernity." This course explores connections between the larger cultural frameworks of the past century, and the idea of space as it has been perceived, conceived and lived during this period. Readings include essays from the disciplines of philosophy, geography, architecture, landscape, and urbanism, and short works of fiction that
Architecture^Special Topics in Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Special Topics in Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Topics cover contemporary and historical issues in architectural design theory and criticism. For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^Energy and Environment Energy and Environment This course provides undergraduates and graduates with an introduction to issues of physical building performance including building thermodynamics, daylighting, and solar control. The course presents the fundamentals of building science while recongnizing the evolving nature of building technologies, energy efficiency, ecology, and responsible design. The course begins with a detailed explication of the thermal properties of materials, heat transfer through building assemblies, balance point temperature
Architecture^Sustainability Colloquium Sustainability Colloquium Presentations on a variety of topics related to sustainability, offering perspectives from leading practioners: architectural designers, city planners, consultants, engineers, and researchers. Students can enroll for one unit (required attendance plus reading) or two units (with additional writing assignments.
Architecture^Introduction to Acoustics Introduction to Acoustics This course focuses on what architects need to know about acoustics. The first part deals with the fundamentals of acoustics including how sound levels are described and measured, and human response to sound. The course then covers building acoustics, mechanical equipment noise and vibration control, office acoustics, design of sound amplification systems, and environmental acoustics.
Architecture^Special Topics in Energy and Environment Special Topics in Energy and Environment Special topics include climatic design, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning systems, lighting, and acoustics. For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^Introduction to Structures Introduction to Structures Study of forces, materials, and structural significance in the design of buildings. Emphasis on understanding the structural behavior of real building systems.
Architecture^Design and Computer Analysis of Structure Design and Computer Analysis of Structure Design and analysis of whole structural building systems with the aid of finite element analytical methods. Advanced structural concepts explored in a laboratory environment.
Architecture^Structure, Construction, and Space Structure, Construction, and Space In profound buildings, the structural system, construction materials, and architectural form work together to create an integrated work of art. Current practice segregates these three areas by assigning separate and rigid roles to 1) an engineer, 2) a contractor, and 3) an architect. The goal of this class is to blur these traditional boundaries and erase the intellectual cleft though hands-on experience. Students are given weekly assignments which focus on one or more of the three areas. They may
Architecture^Special Topics in Building Structures Special Topics in Building Structures Special topics such as experimental structures and architural preservation. For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^Introduction to Construction Introduction to Construction This introduction to the materials and processes of construction takes architecture from design to realization. The course will cover four material groups commonly used in two areas of the building assembly (structure and envelope): wood, concrete, steel, and glass. You will understand choices available and how materials are conventionally used. By observing construction, you'll see how our decisions affect the size of materials, connections, and where they are assembled. Architects must understand
Architecture^Special Topics in Construction Materials Special Topics in Construction Materials For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^An Historical Survey of Architecture and Urbanism An Historical Survey of Architecture and Urbanism The first part of this sequence studies the ancient and medieval periods; the second part studies the period since 1400; the aim is to look at architecture and urbanism in their social and historical context.
Architecture^An Historical Survey of Architecture and Urbanism An Historical Survey of Architecture and Urbanism The first part of this sequence studies the ancient and medieval periods; the second part studies the period since 1400; the aim is to look at architecture and urbanism in their social and historical context.
Architecture^Case Studies in Modern Architecture Case Studies in Modern Architecture This course examines developments in design, theory, graphic representation, construction technology, and interior programming through case studies of individual buildings. Our survey technique will be highly focused rather than panoptic. Each lecture will delve deeply into one or two buildings to examine program, spatial organization, graphic representation, critical building details, construction technology, and the relationship of the case study building with regard to other contemporary structures
Architecture^Architecture in Depression and War Architecture in Depression and War The Great Depression and World War II are arguably the two most influential events for the development of the built environment in the 20th century. Not only did they alter the socio-economic and political landscape on which architecture and urban planning depend, but they also led to technological innovations and vital debates about the built environment. This course examines the 1930's and 1940's topically, studying the work of the New Deal, corporate responses to the Depression and war, the important
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Theory 1945-Present Introduction to Architectural Theory 1945-Present This seminar provides an introduction to architectural theory since 1945, with emphasis on developments over the last three decades. Class readings and discussions explore the post-World War II crisis within modernism, postmodernism within and beyond architectural culture, and more recent developments around issues such as rapid urbanization, sustainability, the politics of cultural identity, and globalization. Transformations in architectural theory are examined in relation to historical forces
Architecture^American Architecture American Architecture The first half of this course surveys American architecture from Colonial times to contemporary trends. Stylistic and spatial analysis is linked with the socioeconomic, political, and environmental influences on architecture, issues on originality, American exceptionalism, the influence from abroad, regionalism, and the role of technology. The second half delves more deeply into the history of specific building types--house, church, museum, library--grafting the earlier themes onto a history of
Architecture^Visionary Architecture Visionary Architecture This course explores architectural visions as historical windows, examining them from a number of angles. Using a variety of case studies drawn from different media (architectural theory, film, advertisements, architectural projects, and so on) and periods (turn of the century, the Modern Movement, Depression, World War II, 1960's, etc,) it provides a sampling of possibilities and models for the final student project, an in-depth, original research paper. Several themes thread their way through
Architecture^Special Topics in the History of Architecture Special Topics in the History of Architecture Special topics in Architectural History. For current section offerings, see departmental announcement.
Architecture^Prison Prison Taking a broad interdisciplinary approach, this course embraces the longue duree of critical prison studies, questioning the shadows of normality that cloak mass incarceration both across the globe and, more particularly, in the contemporary United States. This course thus explores a series of visceral, unsettling juxtapositions: "freedom" and "slavery"; "citizenship" and "subjugation"; "marginalization" and "inclusion", in each case explicating
Architecture^Special Group Study Special Group Study Studies developed to meet needs.
Architecture^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Architecture^Introduction to Architecture Studio 1 Introduction to Architecture Studio 1 Introductory course in architectural design and theories for graduate students. Problems emphasize the major format, spatial, material, tectonic, social, technological, and environmental determinants of building form. Studio work is supplemented by lectures, discussions, readings, and field trips.
Architecture^Introduction to Architecture Studio 2 Introduction to Architecture Studio 2 Introductory course in architectural design and theories for graduate students. Problems emphasize the major format, spatial, material, tectonic, social, technological, and environmental determinants of building form. Studio work is supplemented by lectures, discussions, readings, and field trips.
Architecture^Representational Practice in Architectural Design Representational Practice in Architectural Design This course will address three distinct levels of representational practice in architectural design: 1) cultivate an understanding of the foundational discourse and diversity of approaches to architectural representation; 2) develop a fluency in the canonical methods found in architectural practice; 3) encourage the development of a personal relationship to forms of modeling and formats of drawing.
Architecture^Architecture & Urbanism Design Studio Architecture & Urbanism Design Studio The design of buildings or communities of advanced complexity. Each section deals with a specific topic such as housing, public and institutional buildings, and local or international community development. Studio work is supplemented by lectures, discussions, readings, and field trips.
Architecture^Graduate Option Studio Graduate Option Studio Focused design and research as the capstone project for graduate students.
Architecture^Final Project Preparation Seminar: Thesis Final Project Preparation Seminar: Thesis Specific research topics organized to prepare students for their final project studio or thesis.
Architecture^Final Research Seminar Final Research Seminar Specific research topics organized to prepare students for their final project studio or thesis.
Architecture^Final Project Studio: Studio Thesis Option Final Project Studio: Studio Thesis Option Focused design research as the capstone project for graduate students.
Architecture^Thesis Seminar Thesis Seminar Focused design research as the capstone project for graduate students.
Architecture^Thesis Studio Thesis Studio Focused design research as the capstone project for graduate students.
Architecture^Studio One, Fall Studio One, Fall This course is a one-year, post-professional design studio intended for those students who have a professional architecture degree and wish to explore current design issues in a stimulating, rigorous, and highly experimental studio setting.
Architecture^Studio One, Spring Studio One, Spring This course is the second semester of a one-year, post-professional studio intended for those students who have a professional architecture degree and wish to explore current design issues in a stimulating, rigorous, and highly experimental studio setting.
Architecture^Architecture Lectures Colloquium Architecture Lectures Colloquium This course accompanies the required introductory design studio in the three-year option of the Master of Architecture program. It is the first in a series of three one-unit colloquia, scheduled consecutively for the first three semesters of the program. Students will attend all Wednesday evening lectures of the College of Environmental Design lecture series. Every third week, they will meet with the instructor for a one-hour discussion.
Architecture^Architecture Research Colloquium Architecture Research Colloquium This course accompanies the second semester of the required introductory design studio in the three-year option of the Master of Architecture program. It is the second in a series of three one-unit colloquia, scheduled consecutively for the first three semesters of the program. For a one-hour session each week, faculty in the department of architecture and other departments of the College of Environmental Design will present lectures on their research and design practice.
Architecture^Professional Practice Colloquium Professional Practice Colloquium This course accompanies the required comprehensive design studio in the three-year option of the Master of Architecture program. It is the third in a series of three one-unit colloquia, scheduled consecutively for the first three semesters of the program.
Architecture^The Cultures of Practice The Cultures of Practice The nature of architectural practice, how it has evolved and how it is changing in today's world is the theme of the class. The course considers how diverse cultures--both anthropological and professional--contribute to practice, and how the culture of practice evolves. The class has three five-week modules, devoted to the following themes: traditions of practice, research in the culture of the profession, and innovations in practice.
Architecture^Introduction to Construction Law Introduction to Construction Law The course introduces graduate students to legal and related professional practice issues that often arise during a design professional's career. Careful practitioners can avoid or mitigate many legal problems through vigilance and loss prevention techniques. Course topics include standard of care, business formation, contract analysis and negotiation, intellectual property rights, projects delivery models, insurance, and dispute resolution.
Architecture^Special Topics in Architectural Design Special Topics in Architectural Design Topics deal with major problems and current issues in architectural design. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Theory and Methods in the Social and Cultural Basis of Design Theory and Methods in the Social and Cultural Basis of Design Explores a variety of theories which explain and document the relationship between humans and the environment they build; outlines the research methods appropriate to each theory.
Architecture^Body-Conscious Design: Shoes, Chairs, Rooms, and Beyond Body-Conscious Design: Shoes, Chairs, Rooms, and Beyond This seminar prepares students to evaluate and design environments from the point of view of how they interact with the human body. Tools and clothing modify that interaction. Semi-fixed features of the near environment, especially furniture, may have greater impact on physical well being and social-psychological comfort than fixed features like walls, openings, and volume. Today, designers can help redefine and legitimize new attitudes toward supporting the human body by, for example, designing
Architecture^Landscape, Architecture, Infrastructure, and Urbanism Landscape, Architecture, Infrastructure, and Urbanism This seminar aims to explore how the physical and conceptual understanding of landscape can enrich current forms of architectural and urban design practice. At the junction of landform, infrastructure, urban design, and architecture lies a rich field of possibilities that is increasingly superseding the narrower field of each of the disciplines by themselves. In the past century, contemporary culture and technology-automobiles, televisions, cell phones, and the internet have socially, culturally
Architecture^The Sociology of Taste in Environmental Design The Sociology of Taste in Environmental Design Taste is at work in the way we display our things as much as in the qualities of things themselves. A performance-oriented model of taste observes that objects fall into two broad categories: pragmatic (that support behavior) and symbolic (that identify a person). People visually organize these two categories of objects using both explicit and subconscious aesthetic rules to produce visually unified displays. Depending on how it is used, how it is placed in relation to other things, an object's
Architecture^Social Aspects of Housing Design: Mid-Rise Urbanism Social Aspects of Housing Design: Mid-Rise Urbanism The course explores strategies to bring coherence and continuity back to the city focusing on mid-rise, higher density urbanism and the potential and difficulties of this scale of urban fabric to contribute to the form of cities, without losing the potential of choice and diversity. The seminars are organized in case studies revolving around four cities: Amsterdam, Barcelona, Beijing, and New York. Design exercises parallel the case studies as a way to test and challenge the potentials of mid-rise
Architecture^Housing, Urbanization, and Urbanism: Design, Planning, and Policy Issues in Developing Countries Housing, Urbanization, and Urbanism: Design, Planning, and Policy Issues in Developing Countries This seminar is concerned with the study of housing, urbanization, and urbanism in developing countries, studying not only the physical landscapes of settlements, but also the social, economic, political, and cultural dimensions. This course's focus will be on housing, its lens will be their processes of urbanization, and its intent will be to investigate the space for action by the professionals of the "urban" in the arena of housing. While the emphasis of the course will be on the diverse
Architecture^Special Topics in the Social and Cultural Basis of Design Special Topics in the Social and Cultural Basis of Design Topics include the sociology of taste, personal and societal values in design, participatory design, semantic ethnography, environments for special popultions such as the elderly, and building types such as housing, hospitals, schools, offices, and urban parks. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Graduate Seminar in Digital Design Theories and Methods Graduate Seminar in Digital Design Theories and Methods This seminar is intended to help graduate students develop a coherent research agenda in the area of digital design theories and methods. In addition, it is intended to serve as a forum for the exchange of ideas (e.g., work in progress, potential directions for research, etc.) in the area of shared interest. The course provides students with a set of questions as guides, readings, and guest lectures.
Architecture^Principles of Computer Aided Architectural Design Principles of Computer Aided Architectural Design This course introduces students to Architecture's New Media; why and how computers are being used in architecture and what are their current and expected impacts on the discipline and practice of architecture. Topics include presentation and re-presentation (including sketching, drafting, modeling, animating, and rendering); generating design solutions (generative systems, expert systems,genetic algorithms, and neural networks); evaluation and prediction (using examples from structures, energy,
Architecture^Collaboration by Digital Design Collaboration by Digital Design This project-based seminar studies the problem of multi-disciplinary and cross-cultural collaboration in the building industry. It employs two complementary approaches: 1) a theoretical approach, which examines the nature of collaboration in general and in architecture in particular, looks at the methods that have been used to foster and support it, and interrogates their advantages and shortcomings; and 2) a practical approach, which use a web-based multi-person design 'game' that allow students
Architecture^Workshop in Designing Virtual Places Workshop in Designing Virtual Places This course introduces students to designing web-accessible, Multi User, Virtual Environments (MUVEs), inhabited through avatars. Such worlds are used in video games and web-based applications, and are assuming their role as alternative 'places' to physical spaces, where people shop, learn, are entertained, and socialize. Virtual worlds are designed according to the same principles that guide the design of physical spaces, with allowances made for the absence of gravity and other laws of nature.
Architecture^Special Topics in Digital Design Theories and Methods Special Topics in Digital Design Theories and Methods Selected topics in digital design theories and methods. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Advanced Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Advanced Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Seminar in the analysis and discussion of contemporary and historical issues in architectural design theory and criticism.
Architecture^Research Methods in Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Research Methods in Architectural Design Theory and Criticism Seminar in methods and use of research in contemporary and historical architectural design theory and criticism. Required for doctoral students in this study area.
Architecture^Architectures of Globalization: Contested Spaces of Global Culture Architectures of Globalization: Contested Spaces of Global Culture This seminar examines the relationship between architecture and the processes associated with globalization. The social and spatial changes connected to the global economic restructuring of the last four decades are explored in relation to distinctive national conditions and their connection to historical forces such as colonization and imperialism. Theoretical arguments about international urban political economy, uneven development, deindustrialization and the growth of tourism and service industries
Architecture^The Literature of Space The Literature of Space The concept of space as it is applied to the fields of architecture, geography, and urbanism can be understood as a barometer of the condition that we call "modernity." This course explores connections between the larger cultural frameworks of the past century, and the idea of space as it has been perceived, conceived, and lived during this period. Readings include key essays from the disciplines of philosophy, geography, architecture, landscape, and urbanism, and short works of fiction
Architecture^Ulterior Speculation: Monographs and Manifestos Ulterior Speculation: Monographs and Manifestos An examination and analysis of architectural manifestos and monographs from the first half of the 20th century to today. The class analyzes the possibilities and limits of grounding a discourse in practice as well as theory. The seminar complements thesis preparation or can serve as an introduction to critical thinking in architecture.
Architecture^The Dialectic of Poetics and Technology The Dialectic of Poetics and Technology This seminar examines the relationship between technology and design philosophy in the work of architects through analysis of individual buildings within the cntext of the complete oeuvre and an examination of the architect's writings and lectures. The seminar poses the following questions: What is the role of technology in the design philosophy of the architect and how is this theoretical position established in the architect's writings, lectures, interviews? How is this position revealed through
Architecture^Special Topics in Architecture Design Theory and Criticism Special Topics in Architecture Design Theory and Criticism Selected topics in contemporary and historical architectural design theory and criticsm. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Advanced Study of Energy and Environment Advanced Study of Energy and Environment Minimizing energy use is a cornerstone of designing and operating sustainable buildings, and attention to energy issues can often lead to greatly improved indoor environmental quality. For designers, using computer-based energy analysis tools are important not only to qualify for sustainability ratings and meet energy codes, but also to develop intuition about what makes buildings perform well. This course will present quantitative and qualitative methods for assessing energy performance during
Architecture^Research Methods in Building Sciences Research Methods in Building Sciences Required for doctoral students in the area of environmental physics.
Architecture^Sustainability Colloquium Sustainability Colloquium Presentations on a variety of topics related to sustainability, offering perspectives from leading practitioners: architectural designers, city planners, consultants, engineers, and researchers. Students can enroll for one unit (required attendance plus reading) or two units (with additional assignments.
Architecture^Natural Cooling: Sustainable Design for a Warming Planet Natural Cooling: Sustainable Design for a Warming Planet Course focuses on zero- and no-energy climate responsive cooling strategies for both residential and commercial scale buildings. The course reviews designs and technologies that include low- and high-tech solutions, dynamic high performance facades, natural ventilation, and a range of other innovative cooling strategies. The course also explores the relationship between building design and operation, energy use, and climate change.
Architecture^The Secret Life of Buildings The Secret Life of Buildings This exploratory seminar addresses a secret life of buildings related to physical performance. Students examine architectural, lighting, and mechanical systems in existing buildings with attention to energy use, occupant well-being, and architectural spacemaking. The seminar applies a collection of measurement techniques, often involving novel approaches, to reveal operating patterns in the complex environment of contemporary buildings. The personal experience students gain in performing the evaluations
Architecture^Daylighting Daylighting This seminar introduces theories, technologies, design strategies and analytical methods of architectural daylighting, including issues of visual experience, integration with electrical lighting and energy use. The course provides foundation for intelligent daylighting design by developing frameworks for thinking about design, performance and tools. The work examines two archetypal daylighting conditions: a toplighted (roof-lighted) space and a side-lighted (window-lit) space with range of methods
Architecture^Seismic Design and Construction Seismic Design and Construction Contemporary design and construction techniques for improving the performance of new and existing buildings in earthquakes. Topics will include 1) basic principles of seismic design and building performance, 2) retrofit of existing buildings and evaluation techniques, 3) design and planning for disaster recovery and rebuilding. The course will use Bay Area and campus buildings as case studies.
Architecture^Structure, Construction, and Space Structure, Construction, and Space In profound buildings, the structural system, construction materials, and architectural form work together to create an integrated work of art. Current practice segregates these three areas by assigning separate and rigid roles to 1) an engineer, 2) a contractor, and 3) an architect. The goal of this class is to blur these traditional boundaries and erase the intellectual cleft through hands-on experience. Students are given weekly assignments which focus on one or more of the three areas. They
Architecture^Structural Design in the Studio Structural Design in the Studio Teaching structures to architecture students on their own turf: in a design studio. The course is organized around weekly desk reviews and assignments for students enrolled in a 201 design studio or thesis. The reviews and assignments focus on the structural issues of the students' projects. A central goal of the course is to help students understand structural issues as they relate to design and to help them become comfortable with structural concepts so that they can begin to integrate the structure
Architecture^Special Topics in Building Structures Special Topics in Building Structures Selected topics in building structures such as experimental structures and architectural preservation. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Special Topics: Building Structures Special Topics: Building Structures Special topics such as experimental structures and architectural preservation.
Architecture^Introduction to Construction, Graduate Level Introduction to Construction, Graduate Level This course addresses the methods and materials of construction. While students will not be experts at the end of the semester, the course should give students the confidence to feel comfortable on a construction site or when designing a small building for a studio. The course will focus on four major territories: structural materials, building envelope, built elements such as stairs and cabinets, and costs, labor conditions, conventional practices, and the regulatory environments that control design.
Architecture^Architecture in Detail Architecture in Detail This seminar will reevaluate the material nature of buildings by studying and understanding construction details and the new technologies that are revolutionizing design construction and labor relations in architecture.
Architecture^Off-Site Fabrication: Opportunities and Evils Off-Site Fabrication: Opportunities and Evils This seminar looks at the implications of off-site fabrication in architecture: consistent, protected environments; worker efficiency and safety; coordination of trades; cheaper, semi-skilled labor; construction periods shortened; and completion dates more predictable. Off-site fabrication can allow for increased refinement and trial assemblies. However, it may also create monotonous sameness when the processes and results are not considered with care.
Architecture^Japanese Craft and Construction Japanese Craft and Construction The class addresses the role craft and construction play in Japanese architecture and applies these lessons to the evaluation of an exemplary recent building having unusual technical features. Buildings are expressions of theoretic and technical intent and a response to cultural and economic forces; Japanese architecture is regarded as particularly innovative. In studying a system where there is an emphasis on collaboration, students also see the values of North American systems of architectural
Architecture^Special Topics in Construction and Materials Special Topics in Construction and Materials Selected topics in construction and materials. For current offerings, see departmental website.
Architecture^Special topics: Construction and Materials Special topics: Construction and Materials Selected topics such as construction management implementation and geological hazards to construction. For current section offerings see department web site.
Architecture^History of Modern Architecture History of Modern Architecture This course examines developments in design, theory, graphic representation, construction technology, and interior programming through case studies of individual buildings. Each lecture will delve deeply into one or sometimes two buildings to examine program, spatial organization, critical building details, and the relationship of the case study building with regard to other parallel works and the architect's overall body of work.
Architecture^Case Studies in Modern Architecture Case Studies in Modern Architecture This course examines developments in design, theory, graphic representation, construction technology, and interior programming through case studies of individual buildings. Our survey technique will be highly focused rather than panoptic. Each lecture will delve deeply into one or two buildings to examine program, spatial organization, graphic representation, critical building details, construction technology, and the relationship of the case study building with regard to other contemporary structures
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Theory 1945 - Present Introduction to Architectural Theory 1945 - Present This seminar provides an introduction to architectural theory since 1945, with emphasis on developments over the last three decades. Class readings, and discussions explore the post-World War II crisis within modernism, postmodernism within and beyond architectural culture, and more recent developments around issues such as rapid urbanization, sustainability, the politics of cultural identity and globalization. Transformations in architectural theory are examined in relation to historical forces
Architecture^Spaces of Recreation and Leisure, 1850-2000 Spaces of Recreation and Leisure, 1850-2000 A reading and research seminar surveying the building types, social relations, and cultural ideas of recreation in the American city, including the tensions between home, public, and commerical leisure settings.
Architecture^Visionary Architecture Visionary Architecture This course explores architectural visions as historical windows, examining them from a number of angles. Using a variety of cases studies drawn from different media (architectural theory, film, advertisements, architectural projects, and so on) and periods (turn of the century, the Modern Movement, Depression, World War II, 1860's, etc.) It provides a sampling of possibilities and models for the final student project, an in-depth, original research paper. Several themes thread their way through
Architecture^Special Topics in the History of Architecture Special Topics in the History of Architecture Selected topics in the history of architecture. For current offerings, see department website.
Architecture^Methods of Inquiry in Architectural Research Methods of Inquiry in Architectural Research This is the introductory course in methods of inquiry in architecture research to be required of all entering Ph.D. students in all areas of the program. The purpose is to train students in predissertation and prethesis research strategies, expose them to variety of inquiry methods including the value of scholarly research, the nature of evidence, critical reading as content analysis and writing, presenting and illustrating scholarship in the various disciplines of architecture.
Architecture^Special Group Study Special Group Study Special group studies on topics to be introduced by instructor or students.
Architecture^Individual Study and Research for Master's and Doctoral Students Individual Study and Research for Master's and Doctoral Students Individual studies including reading and individual research under the supervision of a faculty adviser and designed to reinforce the student's background in areas related to the proposed degree.
Architecture^Seminar in the Teaching of Architecture Seminar in the Teaching of Architecture This class is intended for first-time graduate student instructors, especially those working in studio and lab settings. The class covers a range of issues that normally come up when teaching, offers suggestions regarding how to work well with other graduate student instructors and faculty, and how to manage a graduate student instructor's role as both student and teacher. The greatest benefit of this class comes from the opportunity to explore important topics together. Using a relatively light
Public Health^Group Study in Public Policy Group Study in Public Policy Group study on selected public policy topics. Open to freshmen and sophomores.
Public Health^Introduction to Public Policy Analysis Introduction to Public Policy Analysis A systematic and critical approach to evaluating and designing public policies. Combines theory and application to particular cases and problems. Diverse policy topics, including environmental, health, education, communications, safety, and arts policy issues, among others.
Public Health^Wealth and Poverty Wealth and Poverty This course is designed to provide students with a deeper understanding both of the structure of political economy and of why the distribution of earnings, wealth, and opportunity have been diverging in the United States and in other nations. It is also intended to provide insight into the political and public policy debates that have arisen in light of the divergence as well as possible means of reversing it.
Public Health^Wealth and Poverty Wealth and Poverty This course is designed to provide students with a deeper understanding both of the organization of the political economy in the United States and of other advanced economies, and of why the distribution of earnings, wealth, and opportunity have been diverging in the United States and in other nations. It also is intended to provide insights into the political and public-policy debates that have arisen in light of this divergence, as well as possible means of reversing it.
Public Health^Race, Ethnicity, and Public Policy Race, Ethnicity, and Public Policy The objective of this course is to use the tools and insights of public policy analysis as a means of understanding the ways in which policies are shaped by and respond to issues of race, ethnicity, and cultural difference. The course is organized around a series of discrete policy problems involving issues of race and ethnicity. It is designed to allow for comparative analysis within and across cases to explore the variety of ways in which policy intersects with different racial and ethnic groups.
Public Health^Applied Econometrics and Public Policy Applied Econometrics and Public Policy This course focuses on the sensible application of econometric methods to empirical problems in economics and public policy analysis. It provides background on issues that arise when analyzing non-experimental social science data and a guide for tools that are useful for empirical research. By the end of the course, students will have an understanding of the types of research designs that can lead to convincing analysis and be comfortable working with large scale data sets.
Public Health^Program and Policy Design Program and Policy Design Studio/laboratory in the design of nonphysical environments. Complements courses in policy analysis, public management, economics, and political science; especially intended to integrate elements of professional programs in public policy and related areas. Students will design, in groups and individually, programs and policies that create value in the public sector, including statutes, regulations, and implementation projects. Comparative reviews will feature invited guests. Undergraduate level
Public Health^Arts and Cultural Policy Arts and Cultural Policy Survey of government policy toward the arts (especially direct subsidy, copyright and regulation, and indirect assistance) and its effects on artists, audiences, and institutions. Emphasizes "highbrow" arts, U.S. policy, and the social and economic roles of participants in the arts. Readings, field trips, and case discussion. One paper in two drafts required for undergraduate credit; graduate credit awarded for an additional short paper to be arranged and attendance at four advanced colloquia
Public Health^Arts and Cultural Policy Arts and Cultural Policy Survey of government policy toward the arts (especially direct subsidy, copyright and regulation, and indirect assistance) and its effects on artists, audiences, and institutions. Emphasizes "highbrow" arts, U.S. policy, and the social and economic roles of participants in the arts. Readings, field trips, and case discussion. One paper in two drafts required for undergraduate credit; graduate credit awarded for an additional short paper to be arranged and attendance at four advanced colloquia
Public Health^Impact of Government Policies on Poor Children and Families Impact of Government Policies on Poor Children and Families Examination of the impact of policies of state intervention and public benefit programs on poor children and families. Introduction to child and family policy, and study of specific issue areas, such as income transfer programs, housing, health care, and child abuse.
Public Health^Public Budgeting Public Budgeting Public sector budgeting incorporates many, perhaps most, of the skills of the public manager and analyst. The goal of this course is to develop and hone these skills. Using cases and readings from all levels of American government, the course will allow the student to gain and understanding of the effects and consequences of public sector budgeting, its processes and participants, and the potential impacts of various reforms. Undegraduate level of Public Policy 269. This course can be applied to
Public Health^Environment and Technology from the Policy and Business Perspective Environment and Technology from the Policy and Business Perspective Most environmental issues involve technology, either in the role of "villain" or "hero." This course uses the lens of specific technologies to survey environmental policy and management, with an emphasis on the complexities of policy-making with diverse interest groups. The class includes case studies, guest practitioners, and a group project in which students employ a range of analytic tools and frameworks in order to develop creative, effective, and actionable environmental
Public Health^Energy and Society Energy and Society Energy sources, uses, and impacts: an introduction to the technology, politics, economics, and environmental effects of energy in contemporary society. Energy and well-being; energy in international perspective, origins, and character of energy crisis.
Public Health^Special Topics in Public Policy Special Topics in Public Policy Course examines current problems and issues in the field of public policy. Topics may vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of the semester. Open to students from other departments.
Public Health^Introduction to Policy Analysis Introduction to Policy Analysis This introductory course will integrate various social science disciplines and apply these perspectives to problems of public policy. Throughout the academic term, students will apply knowledge of politics, economics, sociology, and quantitative methods in the analysis of case studies of policymakers and managers making decisions. Students learn to use the techniques of social science to evaluate projects and programs. Course will include the preparation of a major paper for a client.
Public Health^Advanced Policy Analysis Advanced Policy Analysis Each student will conduct thorough analysis on a major policy question. In this research, students will apply the interdisciplinary methods, approaches, and perspectives studied in the core curriculum.
Public Health^The Economics of Public Policy Analysis The Economics of Public Policy Analysis Theories of microeconomic behavior of consumers, producers, and bureaucrats are developed and applied to specific policy areas. Ability to analyze the effects of alternative policy actions in terms of 1) the efficiency of resource allocation and 2) equity is stressed. Policy areas are selected to show a broad range of actual applications of theory and a variety of policy strategies.
Public Health^The Economics of Public Policy Analysis The Economics of Public Policy Analysis Theories of microeconomic behavior of consumers, producers, and bureaucrats are developed and applied to specific policy areas. Ability to analyze the effects of alternative policy actions in terms of 1) the efficiency of resource allocation and 2) equity is stressed. Policy areas are selected to show a broad range of actual applications of theory and a variety of policy strategies.
Public Health^Law and Public Policy Law and Public Policy Focuses on legal aspects of public policy by exposing students to primary legal materials, including court decisions and legislative and administrative regulations. Skills of interpretation and legal draftsmanship are developed. Relationships among law-making agencies and between law and policy are explored through case-centered studies.
Public Health^Climate, Energy and Development Climate, Energy and Development Graduate seminar examining the role of energy science, technology, and policy in international development. The course will look at how changes in the theory and practice of energy systems and of international development have co-evolved over the past half- century, and what opportunities exist going forward.  A focus will be on rural and decentralized energy use, and the issues of technology, culture, and politics that are raised by both current trajectories, and potential
Public Health^Decision Analysis, Modeling, and Quantitative Methods Decision Analysis, Modeling, and Quantitative Methods An integrated course on the use of quantitative techniques in public policy analysis: computer modeling and simulation, linear programming and optimization, decision theory, and statistical and econometric analysis of policy-relevant data. The student develops a facility in distilling the policy relevance of numbers through an analysis of case studies and statistical data sets.
Public Health^Decision Analysis, Modeling, and Quantitative Methods Decision Analysis, Modeling, and Quantitative Methods An integrated course on the use of quantitative techniques in public policy analysis: computer modeling and simulation, linear programming and optimization, decision theory, and statistical and econometric analysis of policy-relevant data. The student develops a facility in distilling the policy relevance of numbers through an analysis of case studies and statistical data sets.
Public Health^Political and Agency Management Aspects of Public Policy Political and Agency Management Aspects of Public Policy This course examines the political and organizational factors involved in developing new policies, choosing among alternatives, gaining acceptance, assuring implementation, and coping with unanticipated consequences. Materials will include case studies, theoretical, empirical, and interpretive works from several disciplines.
Public Health^Microeconomic Organization and Policy Analysis Microeconomic Organization and Policy Analysis Research seminar to develop public policy analyses based on microeconomic theories of organization, including collective demand mechanisms, behavioral theory of regulatory agencies and bureaucracies, and productivity in the public sector.
Public Health^International Economic Development Policy International Economic Development Policy This course emphasizes the development and application of policy solutions to developing-world problems related to poverty, macroeconomic policy, and environmental sustainability. Methods of statistical, economic, and policy analysis are applied to a series of case studies. The course is designed to develop practical professional skills for application in the international arena.
Public Health^Program and Policy Design Program and Policy Design Studio/laboratory in the design of non-physical environments. Complements courses in policy analysis, public management, economics, and political science; especially intended to integrate elements of professional programs in public policy and related areas. Students will design, in groups and individually, programs and policies that create value in the public sector, including statutes, regulations, and implementation projects. Comparative reviews will feature invited guests. Graduate level of 156.
Public Health^Arts and Cultural Policy Arts and Cultural Policy Survey of government policy toward the arts (especially direct subsidy, copyright and regulation, and indirect assistance) and its effects on artists, audiences, and institutions. Emphasizes "highbrow" arts, U.S. policy, and the social and economic roles of participants in the arts. Readings, field trips, and case discussion. One paper in two drafts required for undergraduate credit; graduate credit awarded for an additional short paper to be arranged and attendance at four advanced colloquia
Public Health^Benefit-Cost Analysis Benefit-Cost Analysis This course discusses and criticizes the conceptual foundations of cost-benefit analysis, and analyzes in depth some important applied aspects such as endogenous prices of other commodities, methods to infer willingness to pay, valuation of life, uncertainty and the rate of discount. The goal of this course is to teach you the theory and practice of cost-benefit analysis, with an eye to preparing you to confidently conduct a CBA for an employer or client starting on day one of your career as a policy
Public Health^Public Leadership and Management Public Leadership and Management This course is designed to help students develop their skills for leading and managing groups, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and public advocacy, with the goal of achieving positive social change. Materials include case studies, analyses, and works from several disciplines. Course is open to first and second year MPP students, but recommended for first year.
Public Health^Public Budgeting Public Budgeting Public sector budgeting is an activity that incorporates many, perhaps most, of the skills of the public manager and analyst. The goal of this course is to develop and hone these skills. Using cases and readings from all levels of American government, the course will allow the student to gain an understanding of the effects and consequences of public sector budgeting, its processes and participants, and the potential impacts of various reforms. Graduate level of Public Policy 179.
Public Health^Kid-First Policy: Family, School, and Community Kid-First Policy: Family, School, and Community This seminar appraises the critical policy choices that shape the lives of children and adolescents from birth through high school and beyond. The issues are as varied-and hotly debated by politicians and policy-makers-as banning Coke machines in schools to reduce obesity, regulating teenage abortion, providing universal preschool and helping abused children. Students from across the campus-public policy, education, social welfare, business, sociology, political science, economics-bring different
Public Health^Research Design and Data Collection for Public Policy Analysis Research Design and Data Collection for Public Policy Analysis Public policy analysis requires a sophisticated understanding of a variety of types of data. Empirical arguments and counterarguments play a central role in policy debates. Quantitative analysis courses teach you how to analyze data; this course will introduce you to strategies of data collection and principles for critically evaluating data collected by others. Topics include measurement reliability and validity, questionnaire design, sampling, experimental and quasi-experimental program evaluation
Public Health^Ethics, Policy, and the Power of Ideas Ethics, Policy, and the Power of Ideas This seminar brings together two related frames for policy thinking: the ethics of policy, that is, what does it mean to do the right thing? and the intervention of policy, that is, how do new policy paradigms emerge? Those who seek to govern well inescapably confront questions of value in their political, professional, and personal choices. the discussion of ethical dilemmas, which will take up the first half of the semester, is designed to provoke analytic reflection on the moral challenges and
Public Health^Environment and Technology from the Policy and Business Perspective Environment and Technology from the Policy and Business Perspective Most environmental issues involve technology, either in the role of "villain" or "hero." This course uses the lens of specific technologies to survey environmental policy and management, with an emphasis on the complexities of policy-making with diverse interest groups. The class includes case studies, guest practitioners, and a group project in which students employ a range of analytic tools and frameworks in order to develop creative, effective, and actionable environmental
Public Health^Energy and Society Energy and Society Energy sources, uses, and impacts; an introduction to the technology, politics, economics, and environmental effects of energy in contemporary society. Energy and well-being; energy international perspective, origins, and character of energy crisis.
Public Health^Nuclear Security: The Nexus Between Policy and Technology Nuclear Security: The Nexus Between Policy and Technology The course will review the origins and evolution of nuclear energy, how it has been applied for both peaceful and military purposes, and the current and prospective challenges it presents. The purpose of the course is to educate students on the policy roots and technological foundations of nuclear energy and nuclear weapons so they are positioned to make original contributions to the field in their scholarly and professional careers.
Public Health^US National Security Policy US National Security Policy An extensive examination of contemporary U.S. national security issues and how policy is developed and implemented. Topics include Russia after the Cold War with emphasis on nuclear and biological weapons; crisis decision-making and the key players in national security policy; the struggle against terrorism, especially since 9/11, with some reference to homeland security; the challenges to U.S. policy in the Middle East after the Arab spring; China as the chief great power rival; and the role of
Public Health^Risk and Optimization Models for Policy Risk and Optimization Models for Policy Optimization and simulation models in stochastic and deterministic contexts. Monte Carlo simulation, Bayesian models and decisions, linear and nonlinear programming, queing models, and a review of heuristics and biases in individual risk assessment. Hands-on exploration of tools oriented to management and policy decisions in public and nonprofit organizations. Objective for students: lifelong habit of learning and using new analytic methods.
Public Health^Special Topics in Public Policy Special Topics in Public Policy Course examines current problems and issues in the field of public policy. Topics may vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of the semester. Open to students from other departments.
Public Health^Directed Advanced Study Directed Advanced Study Open to qualified graduate students wishing to pursue special study and research under direction of a member of the staff.
Public Health^Supervised Research Colloquium Supervised Research Colloquium Open to qualified graduate students wishing to pursue special research under direction of a member of the staff. Discussion and analysis of dissertation research projects, including conceptual and methodological problems of designing and conducting policy research.
Public Health^Ph.D. Seminar Ph.D. Seminar Discussion and analysis of dissertation research projects, including conceptual and methodological problems of designing and conducting public policy research.
Public Health^Graduate Student Led Course in Public Policy Graduate Student Led Course in Public Policy Course examines current problems and issues in the field of public policy. Topics vary from year to year.
Public Health^Directed Advanced Study Directed Advanced Study Open to qualified graduate students wishing to pursue special study and research under direction of a member of the staff.
Public Health^Independent Study in Preparation for the Advanced Policy Analysis Independent Study in Preparation for the Advanced Policy Analysis By arrangement with faculty. Open only to qualified second-year graduate students working toward the M.P.P. degree.
Public Health^GSI Practicum GSI Practicum This course is directed at Graduate Student Instructors for undergraduate and graduate courses, and reviews the most important elements of effective teaching, especially teaching graduate students in professional programs like the Master of Public Policy. It satisfies the graduate division requirement for a 300 course for GSI's.
History^The Practice of History The Practice of History Intended for non-majors as well as prospective majors, this course introduces students to the discipline of history as a humanistic inquiry into the experiences of people in time and space. How do historians interpret and debate the past? How do they gather and make use of their materials and sources? Readings include the works of classical historians from different cultural traditions, contemporary historical debates, and an exploration of historical sources available at Berkeley. Satisfies half
History^Reading and Composition in History Reading and Composition in History Reading and composition courses based upon primary historical documents and secondary historical scholarship. These courses provide an introduction to core issues in the interpretation of historical texts and introduce students to the distinctive ways of reading primary and secondary sources. Courses focus on specific historical topics but address general issues of how historians read and write. Satisfies the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
History^Comparative World History Comparative World History This lower-division lecture course introduces students to the study of history in multiple periods and regions. It will typically be co-taught by faculty members with different geographical and chronological expertise and will center around a particular theme, such as cities, food cultures, or war and society. No prior course-work in the history of any particular part of the world will be expected.
History^After the Roman Empire: the East After the Roman Empire: the East A general introduction to the study of history, this course focuses on Byzantium and the Islamic world, two medieval successors to the Roman empire in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Near East. This course has three aims: to provide an outline of events that transpired in this area from the 4th-15th centuries; to explain how a modern historian can approach medieval sources in order to reconstruct various aspects of the past; and to discuss the commonalities of pre-industrial societies, and how
History^Origins of Western Civilization: The Ancient Mediterranean World Origins of Western Civilization: The Ancient Mediterranean World This course offers an introductory survey of the history of the ancient Mediterranean world, from the rise of city states in Mesopotamia c.3000 BC to the transformation of the Roman Empire in the 5th and 6th centuries AD. The emphasis will be on the major developments in the political and social history of the ancient Near East, Egypt, Greece, and Rome, with special attention to those institutions, practices, ideas, and objects that have had an enduring influence on the development of western civilization.
History^Origins of Western Civilization: Medieval Europe Origins of Western Civilization: Medieval Europe Introductory study of major historical events in the origins of western civilization. Emphasis on class discussions, readings in the sources, and writing of essays.
History^European Civilization from the Renaissance to the Present European Civilization from the Renaissance to the Present This course is an introduction to European history from around 1500 to the present. The central questions that it addresses are how and why Europe--a small, relatively poor, and politically fragmented place-- became the motor of globalization and a world civilzation in its own right. Put differently how did "western" become an adjective that, for better and often for worse, stands in place of "modern".
History^European Civilization from the Renaissance to the Present European Civilization from the Renaissance to the Present A survey of European history from the Renaissance to the present. This course is web-based.
History^Chinese Civilization Chinese Civilization Chinese history from ancient times to the present, with a strong emphasis on primary sources. This course presents the dominant narratives and interpretations of Chinese history, as well as providing a critical understanding of how these views became dominant.
History^History of China: Origins to the Mongol Conquest History of China: Origins to the Mongol Conquest The history of China from its beginnings to the destruction of the Song Dynasty by the Mongols in the 13th century. Topics to be covered include the emergence of Chinese civilization, the Chinese language, early rhetoric and philosophy, the creation of the first empire, law, Buddhism and religious Taoism, the socioeconomic revolution of the 10th to 12th centuries, identities (male and female, Chinese and "barbarian"), lyric poetry, and painting and calligraphy.
History^Introduction to Chinese History from the Mongols to Mao Introduction to Chinese History from the Mongols to Mao This is an introduction to Chinese history from the 13th through the 20th centuries -- from the Mongols and Khubilai Khan's conquest of southern China to the amazing turnaround following the death of Mao Zedong in 1976 and the opening of the era of reform that has led to China's emergence as a major economic and strategic power today. The course assumes no prior knowledge of Chinese history.
History^Introduction to the History of the United States: The United States from Settlement to Civil War Introduction to the History of the United States: The United States from Settlement to Civil War This course is an introduction to the history of the United States from the beginning of the European colonization of North America to the end of the Civil War. It is also an introduction to the ways historians look at the past and think about evidence. There are two main themes: one is to understand the origin of the "groups" we call European-Americans, Native-Americans, and African-Americans; the second, is to understand how democratic political institutions emerged in the United States
History^Introduction to the History of the United States: The United States from Civil War to Present Introduction to the History of the United States: The United States from Civil War to Present What does it mean to be American? Whatever your answer is to this question, chances are it is deeply connected to the themes and events we will discuss in this class. Here we will track America's rise to global power, the fate of freedom in a post-Emancipation political setting, and the changing boundaries of nation, citizenship, and community. We will use landmark events to sharpen our themes, but we will also take care to analyze the equally important (and shifting) patterns of where and how Americans
History^Latin American History: Becoming Latin America, 1492 to 1824 Latin American History: Becoming Latin America, 1492 to 1824 This course covers the history of Latin America from the time of Columbus to around 1870. It thus reckons with almost four centuries of encounter, colonization, accommodation, and struggle that frame the ways that Latin America was becoming Latin American. Lectures and a mix of secondary and primary source readings and images produced during the colonial period serve as points of entry for discussion in section meetings.
History^Latin American History: Modern Latin America Latin American History: Modern Latin America This introductory course surveys the history of modern Latin America from independence to the present, with a strong emphasis on the twentieth century. Our focus will be on broad transfomations in politics, place, identity, and work.
History^African History African History An introductory survey of the history of Africa.
History^Introduction to the History of Japan Introduction to the History of Japan A brisk introduction to the nearly two millennia of recorded Japanese history. As a survey, the course gives attention to broad themes and problems in Japan's political, social, and cultural/intellectual history. Topics include the dialectic of national and local identities in shaping Japanese politics, Japan's interaction with the Asian continent and the Western world, and the relation of past to present in modern times.
History^Science and Society Science and Society Science as we know is the product of a historical process. In this course, we will explore the emergence of its concepts, practices, goals, and cognitive authority by surveying its roots in their social and cultural setting. We will trace the development of conceptions of the natural world from antiquity through the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment and up to the modern age. All the sciences fall within our purview, from their early forms up to today.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman Sophomore Seminar Freshman and sophomore seminars offer lower division students the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member and a group of peers in a small-seminar setting. These seminars are offered in all campus departments; topics vary from department to department and from semester to semester.
History^Directed Group Study for Lower Division Students Directed Group Study for Lower Division Students Lectures and small group discussion focusing on topics of interest that vary from semester to semester. Grading based on discussion and written work.
History^Berkeley Connect for Lower Division Students Berkeley Connect for Lower Division Students Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
History^Special Topics in the History of the United States Special Topics in the History of the United States Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with topics with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations, with all grading by the instructor. Instructors and subjects to vary.
History^Special Topics in Ancient History Special Topics in Ancient History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester. Satisfies the premodern requirement for the History major.
History^Special Topics in European History Special Topics in European History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for specific topic.
History^Special Topics in Medieval History Special Topics in Medieval History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topic. Satisfies the premodern requirement for the History major.
History^Special Topics in the History of the United States Special Topics in the History of the United States Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topics.
History^Special Topics in Latin American History Special Topics in Latin American History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for specific topic.
History^Special Topics in Asian History Special Topics in Asian History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topics.
History^Special Topics in African History Special Topics in African History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topic.
History^Special Topics in Legal History Special Topics in Legal History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topic.
History^Special Topics in the History of the Middle East Special Topics in the History of the Middle East Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topics.
History^Special Topics in History: Short Course Special Topics in History: Short Course Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, more focused than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. See department website for topics. Does not count towards the requirements of the History major or minor, but may satisfy other campus requirements.
History^Special Topics in the History of Science Special Topics in the History of Science Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topics.
History^Special Topics in Comparative History Special Topics in Comparative History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topic.
History^Special Topics in Comparative History Special Topics in Comparative History Designed primarily to permit the instructors to deal with a topic with which they are especially concerned, usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. A combination of informal lectures and discussions, term papers, and examinations. Instructors and subject to vary. Consult department website during pre-enrollment week each semester for topic. Satisfies the premodern requirement for the History major.
History^Seminar in Historical Research and Writing for History Majors Seminar in Historical Research and Writing for History Majors Individual research projects carried out in seminar sections in various historical fields resulting in a lengthy paper, with readings and discussions on general problems of historical inquiry. In addition to regular class meetings, individual consultations with the instructor, research, and preparation totaling ten to twelve hours per week are required.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Ancient Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Ancient Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Europe Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Europe Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: England Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: England Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: United States Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: United States Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Latin America Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Latin America Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Asia Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Asia Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Africa Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Africa Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: History of Science Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: History of Science Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Studies in Comparative History Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Studies in Comparative History Designed primarily to give majors in history elementary training in historical criticism and research. Emphasis will be placed on writing and discussion. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^The Craft of History The Craft of History The principal aim of this course it to prepare students to write a thesis in history (in the HISTORY 101 thesis seminar). To that end, its goals are (i) to introduce students to concrete elements of the craft of history; (ii) to provide ample opportunity in section to learn and practice these elements; and (iii) to introduce students in lecture to the enduring problems of the discipline. The course is offered in the spring semester, and is designed to precede the required 103 and 101 seminars.
History^Ancient Greece: Archaic and Classical Greek History Ancient Greece: Archaic and Classical Greek History An overview of the history of the Greek world from the Bronze Age to 404 BC. Major themes will include: the ecology of the Mediterranean; development of the polis; colonization; tyranny and democracy; religion; warfare; agriculture and commerce; interstate relations; the Persian Wars; Sparta and the Peloponnesian League; Athens and the Athenian Empire. Most readings will be in (translated) primary sources, including Homer, Hesiod, Herodotus, Thucydides, Aeschylus, Aristophanes, and documentary evidence
History^Ancient Greece: The Greek World: 403-31 BCE Ancient Greece: The Greek World: 403-31 BCE An overview of the history of the Greek World from the end of the Peloponnesian War to the Battle of Actium, the final stage in the Roman conquest of the Hellenistic World. Major topics will include: Greek-Persian relations in the fourth century; the rise of Macedon under Philip II; the conquests of Alexander the Great; the Hellenistic kingdoms; cultural interactions between Greeks and non-Greeks; Hellenistic economics; and the Roman conquest of the Greek world. Most readings will be in translated
History^Ancient Rome: The Roman Republic Ancient Rome: The Roman Republic A history of Rome from the foundation of the city to the dictatorship of Caesar. The course examines the evolution of Republican government, the growth of Roman imperialism, and the internal disruptions of the age of the Gracchi, Sulla, and Caesar.
History^Ancient Rome: The Roman Empire Ancient Rome: The Roman Empire A history of Rome from Augustus to Constantine. The course surveys the struggles between the Roman emperors and the senatorial class, the relationship between civil and military government, the emergence of Christianity, and Roman literature as a reflection of social and intellectual life.
History^The Roman Republic The Roman Republic A history of Rome from the foundation of the city to the dictatorship of Caesar. The course examines the evolution of Republican government, the growth of Roman imperialism, and the internal disruptions of the age of the Gracchi, Sulla, and Caesar.
History^The Roman Empire The Roman Empire A history of Rome from Augustus to Constantine. The course surveys the struggles between the Roman emperors and the senatorial class, the relationship between civil and military government, the emergence of Christianity, and Roman literature as a reflection of social and intellectual life.
History^Byzantium Byzantium The social, cultural, and religious history of the Near East and eastern Mediterranean from late antiquity through the early middle ages. The survival of the Roman Empire in Byzantium, the Sassanian Empire in Iran, and the rise of Islam are the topics covered.
History^The Rise of Islamic Civilization, 600-1200 The Rise of Islamic Civilization, 600-1200 A survey of Islamic civilization in the Middle East during the medieval period. Topics include the emergence of Islam in Arabia and the role of the prophet Muhammad; the rapid rise of an Islamic empire and its effects on the societies it governed; the creation of an Islamic civilization and the religious, political, and intellectual debates it engendered; contact with Europe and Asia through trade, the Crusades, and nomadic conquest; the contributions of non-Muslims, women, slaves.
History^The Middle East, 1000-1750 The Middle East, 1000-1750 The establishment of Turkish power in the Middle East: Seljuks, Mongols, Ottomans, and Safavis.
History^The Middle East From the 18th Century to the Present The Middle East From the 18th Century to the Present The breaking of pre-modern empires and the formation of national states in the Arab world, Turkey, and Iran; Islam and nationalism.
History^The Middle East From the 18th Century to the Present The Middle East From the 18th Century to the Present The breaking of pre-modern empires and the formation of national states in the Arab world, Turkey, and Iran; Islam and nationalism.
History^Topics in the History of Southest Asia: Southeast Asia to the 18th Century Topics in the History of Southest Asia: Southeast Asia to the 18th Century The rise of the region's most important classical and early modern states; long-term economic, social, and religious trends.
History^Topics in the History of Southest Asia: Modern Southeast Asia Topics in the History of Southest Asia: Modern Southeast Asia Major themes in modern Southeast Asian history with an emphasis on cross-country comparisons involving the region's largest and most populous countries: Thailand, Burma, Vietnam, Indonesia, and the Philippines.
History^Topics in the History of Southest Asia: Political and Cultural History of Vietnam Topics in the History of Southest Asia: Political and Cultural History of Vietnam This course provides an introduction to the main issues in Vietnamese history from the mythic and archaeological origins of the modern nation-state to the end of the Second Indochina War in 1975. Special emphasis will be placed on "modern" developments from the late 18th century. In addition to history texts, readings will be taken from novels, short stories, poetry, and memoirs.
History^Modern Southeast Asia Modern Southeast Asia Major themes in modern Southeast Asian history with an emphasis on cross-country comparisons involving the region's largest and most populous countries: Thailand, Burma, Vietnam, Indonesia, and the Philippines.
History^Vietnam at War Vietnam at War This course explores the history of the wars that engulfed Vietnam during the post-WWII era. While focusing on the Second Indochina War (1954-1975), it also examines the history of the First Indochina War (1946-1954) and the Third Indochina War (1978-1980). It will address military, political, and social dynamics of the conflict as well as representatives of the war in film, fiction, and memoirs.
History^Africa: Modern South Africa, 1652-Present Africa: Modern South Africa, 1652-Present This course will examine three centuries of South African history that account for the origin and development of the recently dismantled apartheid regime. Our aim is to understand the major historical forces that progressively shaped what became a turbulent socio-cultural, economic, political, and racial frontier.
History^Colonialism and Nationalism in Africa Colonialism and Nationalism in Africa This course examines the nature and effects of European colonization of Africa, and African responses to the colonial encounter. Broad themes include colonial conquest and practices of administration, African responses to the imposition of colonial rule, colonial economies, labor migration, introduction and impact of Christianity and Western education; women and the colonial state, urbanization, social change, the apartheid system, liberation struggles, decolonization, and the colonial legacy.
History^Modern South Africa, 1652-Present Modern South Africa, 1652-Present This course will examine three centuries of South African history that account for the origin and development of the recently dismantled apartheid regime. Our aim is to understand the major historical forces that progressively shaped what became a turbulent socio-cultural, economic, political, and racial frontier.
History^Traditional Korean History Traditional Korean History This course surveys major issues in Korean history from the origins of the Korean people to the 19th century.
History^Modern Korean History Modern Korean History This course will survey major social, economic, and political developments on the Korean peninsula from the middle of the 19th century.
History^India: Medieval and Early Modern India to the Coming of the British India: Medieval and Early Modern India to the Coming of the British We will have two projects in this course. The first of these is to understand, in so far as the sources permit, the nature of state structure in the Indian area between 1000 and 1800 CE. The second of these is to look at the way in which historians have described the history and the society of this period to understand the way in which the Indian state and its society has been constructed. This will involve reading in both substantive texts and theoretical works.
History^India: Modern South Asia India: Modern South Asia Here we will deal with the history of South Asia between the coming of the Europeans and the present. It will be organized around a series of contested formulations about the recent South Asian past. One of these problems is: how was India comprehended and manipulated by the Europeans? The second problem is: How was India conquered, by the sword or by the word? The third is: How did Indians resist the British? Finally, how was the voice of women, lower classes, and others expressed and heard? We
History^China: Two Golden Ages: China During the Tang and Song Dynasties China: Two Golden Ages: China During the Tang and Song Dynasties This course explores Chinese history and culture in the period from the 7th to the 13th centuries, when China achieved unprecedented military, political, and cultural power in East Asia. It concentrates on the fundamental transformation of state and society that took place between the 8th and 12th centuries, and on the nature of the new "early modern" order that had come into existence by the end of the Southern Song. Topics of special concern are economic and political power, technology
History^China: Twentieth-Century China China: Twentieth-Century China Chinese history from the decline of the Qing empire to the reforms under the Chinese Communist Party in the late 20th century.
History^Imperial China and the World Imperial China and the World The history of China's relationship to the world from earliest times to the 20th c. Provides historical contextualization for China’s recent resurgence on the world stage. Topics will include early territorial expansion, the Silk Road, the Great Wall, the Chinese diaspora, Mongol and Manchu empire building, the impact of Europeans in the 19th c, the emergence of Chinese nationalism, and China's evolving role in the global economy.
History^Topics in Chinese History: Chinese Popular Culture Topics in Chinese History: Chinese Popular Culture It is impossible to understand Chinese history and culture without knowing what ordinary people thought, felt, and believed. In this course, our primary concerns will be 1) the built environment -- village form, houses, temples; 2) village festivals and domestic rituals; 3) the rituals and scriptures of local cults; 4) operas, storytelling, and other forms of village entertainment; and 5) popular visual arts. These subjects will be studied through both written and visual documentation.
History^Topics in Chinese History: The Chinese Body: Gender and Sex, Health, and Medicine Topics in Chinese History: The Chinese Body: Gender and Sex, Health, and Medicine This course brings a thematic approach to the critical analysis of the "Chinese body," as constructed before the 20th century, from four main perspectives, those of (1) gender, (2) sexual activity, (3) health, and (4) medicine. A variety of sources, material and literary, attest to changing perceptions over time, through the continuing use of standard vocabulary for Yin/Yang and the Five Phases frequently masked innovations.
History^Japan: Japan, Archaeological Period to 1800 Japan: Japan, Archaeological Period to 1800 Emphasis on political, cultural, and intellectual history of the Early Imperial State, Japan's first military governments, early modern, and Meiji Japan.
History^Japan: Japan 1800-1900 Japan: Japan 1800-1900 Emphasis on the social and intellectual history of Japan's pre-war reconstruction.
History^Japan: Empire and Alienation: The 20th Century in Japan Japan: Empire and Alienation: The 20th Century in Japan Japan's experience of the 20th century, beginning with the development of capitalism and the acquisition of an empire, and tracing the achievements and tragedy that came with Japan's emergence as a world power. Emphasis on social and intellectual history and on how Japan has understood itself and the world in this century.
History^Topics in Japanese History: Postwar Japan Topics in Japanese History: Postwar Japan This course considers the history of Japan since the end of World War II, beginning with an exploration of the war itself and its complex legacy to the postwar era. Using the best recent scholarship and a selection of translated novels, essays, and poetry along with film and art, we look at the six postwar decades and the transformations of Japanese life that those years have brought. We try, finally, to answer the question: has "postwar" itself come to an end?
History^Postwar Japan Postwar Japan This course considers the history of Japan since the end of World War II, beginning with an exploration of the war itself and its complex legacy to the postwar era. Using the best recent scholarship and a selection of translated novels, essays, and poetry along with film and art, we look at the six postwar decades and the transformations of Japanese life that those years have brought. We try, finally, to answer the question: has "postwar" itself come to an end?
History^American Environmental and Cultural History American Environmental and Cultural History History of the American environment and the ways in which different cultural groups have perceived, used, managed, and conserved it from colonial times to the present. Cultures include American Indians and European and African Americans. Natural resources development includes gathering-hunting-fishing; farming, mining, ranching, forestry, and urbanization. Changes in attitudes and behaviors toward nature and past and present conservation and environmental movements are also examined.
History^Antebellum America: The Advent of Mass Society Antebellum America: The Advent of Mass Society This course examines half a century of life in the United States (roughly from the War of 1812 until the secession of the Southern states), focusing on race relations, westward expansion, class formation, immigration, religion, sexuality, popular culture, and everyday life. Assigned readings will consist largely of first-person narratives in which women and men of a range of ethnic and cultural backgrounds construct distinctive visions of life in the new nation.
History^Civil War and Reconstruction Civil War and Reconstruction This lecture course will take a broad view of the political, social, economic, and cultural history of the United States in the mid-19th century in order to explore both the causes of the Civil War and its effects on American development. Major topics will include slavery and race relations (north and south), class relations and industrialization, the organization of party politics, and changing ideas about and uses of government power.
History^The Recent United States: The United States from the Late 19th Century to the Eve of World War II The Recent United States: The United States from the Late 19th Century to the Eve of World War II During the first half-century before World War II, the United States became an industrialized, urban society with national markets and communication media. This class will explore in depth some of the most important changes and how they were connected. We will also examine what did not change, and how state and local priorities persisted in many arenas. Among the topics addressed: population movements and efforts to control immigration; the growth of corporations and trade unions; the campaign for
History^The Recent United States: The United States from World War II to the Vietnam Era The Recent United States: The United States from World War II to the Vietnam Era Immediately prior to World War II, the US military ranked 17th in the world, most African-Americans lived in the rural south and were barred from voting, culture and basic science in the United States enjoyed no world-wide recognition, most married women did not work for wages, and the census did not classify most Americans as middle-class or higher. By 1973, all this had changed. This course will explore these and other transformations, all part of the making of modern America. We will take care
History^The United States from the Late 19th Century to the Eve of the World War II The United States from the Late 19th Century to the Eve of the World War II During the first half-century before World War II, the United States became an industrialized, urban society with national markets and communication media. This class will explore in depth some of the most important changes and how they were connected. We will also examine what did not change, and how state and local priorities persisted in many arenas. Among the topics addressed: population movements and efforts to control immigration; the growth of corporations and trade unions; the campaign for
History^The United States from World War II to the Vietnam Era The United States from World War II to the Vietnam Era Immediately prior to World War II, the U.S. military ranked 17th in the world, most African-Americans lived in the rural south and were barred from voting, culture and basic science in the United States enjoyed no world-wide recognition, most married women did not work for wages, and the census did not classify most Americans as middle-class or higher. By 1973, all this had changed. This course will explore these and other transformations, all part of the making of modern America. We will take care
History^History of African-Americans and Race Relations in the United States: The History of Black People and Race Relations, 1550-1861 History of African-Americans and Race Relations in the United States: The History of Black People and Race Relations, 1550-1861 The course will survey African American history from the African background to the outbreak of the Civil War. The origins and development of Afro-American society, culture and politics will be explored from the perspective of African-Americans themselves: slave and free, North and South. Throughout, the enduring dilemma of race relations functions as a central theme.
History^History of African-Americans and Race Relations in the United States: Soul Power: African American History 1861-1980 History of African-Americans and Race Relations in the United States: Soul Power: African American History 1861-1980 This course will examine the history of African Americans and ethno-racial relations from the Civil War and Emancipation (1861-1865) to the modern African American Freedom Struggle (1954-1972). Social, cultural, economic, and political developments will be emphasized. Topics to be covered include: Black Reconstruction; black life and labor in the New South; leadership; class; gender; Jim Crow; migration; urbanization; war and social change; the Harlem Renaissance; civil rights; and Black Power.
History^Soul Power: African American History 1861-2008 Soul Power: African American History 1861-2008 This course will examine the history of African Americans and ethno-racial relations from the Civil War and Emancipation (1861-1865) to the modern African American Freedom Struggle (1954-1972). Social, cultural, economic, and political developments will be emphasized. Topics to be covered include Black Reconstruction, black life and labor in the New South; leadership; class; gender; Jim Crow; migration; urbanization; war and social change; the Harlem Renaissance; civil rights; and Black Power.
History^The American West since 1850 The American West since 1850 This course surveys the history of the American West since 1845. We will pay particular heed to the history and historiography surrounding those aspects of the West that are typically associated with the region's distinctiveness as both a shifting region on the national map and a potent metaphor in the national imagination.
History^The American West since 1850 The American West since 1850 This course surveys the history of the American West since 1845. We will pay particular heed to the history and historiography surrounding those aspects of the West that are typically associated with the region's distinctiveness as both a shifting region on the national map and a potent metaphor in the national imagination.
History^California California The history of California from pre-European contact to the present, with emphasis on the diversity of cultures and the interplay of social, economic, and political developments.
History^American Foreign Policy American Foreign Policy This course will explore the history of American foreign policy since 1776, focusing on diplomatic and military interactions and the evolution of American strategic thought. Students will also traverse the broader history of international relations and will engage some of the basic vocabulary of IR theory. Topics will range from the territorial expansion of the United States to the making of Cold War strategy and beyond. Students will be asked to consider how historical knowledge and reasoning might
History^Diplomatic History of the United States: The United States and the World Since 1945 Diplomatic History of the United States: The United States and the World Since 1945 This course will explore U.S. relations with the external world since 1945. It will encompass the political and military interactions that constitute diplomatic history, but it will include other kinds of international and transnational encounters. The course will address themes including the struggle for a new world order after 1945; the Cold War's advent, intensification, and ending; the onrush of globalization since the 1970s; and the search for a coherent foreign policy after the Cold War.
History^Social History of the United States: Creating Modern American Society: From the End of the Civil War to the Global Age Social History of the United States: Creating Modern American Society: From the End of the Civil War to the Global Age This course examines the transformation of American society since the Civil War. The lectures and readings give special attention to the emergence of city culture and its possibilities for a pluralistic society; the experience and effect of immigration in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries; the revolution in communications and industry; changes in family dynamics, the emergence of modern childhood, schooling, and youth culture; changes in gender relations and sexuality; the problematics of race
History^Social History of the United States: 1914-Present Social History of the United States: 1914-Present The nature and development of social and economic institutions; class, family, and racial relationships; sex roles; and cultural norms in the United States.
History^Intellectual History of the United States since 1865 Intellectual History of the United States since 1865 In this course we will be discussing key developments in U.S. thought since the middle of the nineteenth century, roughly beginning with the reception of Darwin. The broader story told in the class weaves together in the history of science and engineering, the arts and popular culture, philosophy, and education. Our goal is to trace how ideas, whether they are dominant, challenging, or look back, have affected the ways in which Americans live together. We will look at how intellectual life has empowered
History^The Age of the City: The Age of the City, 1825-1933 The Age of the City: The Age of the City, 1825-1933 For most of human history, urban living has been the experience of a distinct minority. Only in the past two hundred years have the physicial spaces, social relations, and lifestyles associated with large cities entered the mainstream. This course examines the long century of urban growth between 1825 and 1933, when big cities came into being in the United States. Focusing on large metropolitian centers (especially on New York, Chicago, and San Francisco), we will study the way urban spaces provided
History^American Indian History: Precontact to the Present American Indian History: Precontact to the Present This course will provide an introductory interpretation of the varied historical experiences of diverse nations native to North America from their origins through the present. We will assess both the impact of colonialism and its consequences upon Indian peoples as well as their responses, treating Native Americans as historical, political, economic, and cultural actors who resourcefully adjusted, resisted, and accommodated to the changing realities of life in native North America.
History^Gender Matters in 20th Century America Gender Matters in 20th Century America This course explores the social, political, cultural, and economic history of women and men's lives, as well as changing sexual attitudes toward gender, the family and sexuality. Against the tapestry of twentieth American history, we will analyze how two dramatic changes--women's entry into the paid labor force and their control over their repoductive lives--gave rise to our contemporary cultural wars over the family, sexuality and reproduction.
History^Gender Matters in 20th Century America Gender Matters in 20th Century America This course explores the social, political, cultural, and economic history of women and men's lives, as well as changing sexual attitudes toward gender, the family and sexuality. Against the tapestry of twentieth century American history, we will analyze how two dramatic changes -- women's entry into the paid labor force and their control over their reproductive lives -- gave rise to our contemporary cultural wars over the family, sexuality, and reproduction.
History^The Repeopling of America The Repeopling of America This course examines the coming together of people from five continents to the United States and provides an historical overview of the shifting patterns of immigration. The course begins in the colonial era when servants and slaves typified the migrant to America. It then follows the migration of the pre-industrial immigrants, through migration streams during the industrial and "post-industrial" eras of the nation.
History^History of Science in the U.S History of Science in the U.S History of science in the U.S. from the colonial period to the present, with a focus on the contentious debates over the place of science within cultural, religious, and social-intellectual life. Development of institutions for the pursuit of scientific knowledge, with special attention to the relationships between science and technology and between science and the state.
History^History of Science in the US CalTeach History of Science in the US CalTeach This course is a parallel course to 138, intended for students interested in teaching elementary or secondary school science and math. Students in the "T" course will attend the regular 138 lectures and a special section; this section will focus on techniques, skills, and perspectives necessary to apply the history of science in the juvenile and adolescent science classroom, including pedagogy, devising lesson plans for their classrooms, finding reliable historical information, and writing.
History^The American Immigrant Experience The American Immigrant Experience The history of the United States is the history of migration. The course covers the evolution of the American population from about 20,000 BC with the goal of understanding the interdependent roles of history and demography. As an American cultures class, special attention is given to the experiences of 18th- and 19th-century African and European immigrants and 20th- and 21st-century Asian and Latin American immigrants. Two substantial laboratory assignments; facility with a spreadsheet program
History^Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History Beginning with the onset of World War II, America experienced not a sigular,unitary Civil Rights Movement -- as is typically portrayed in standard textbood accounts and the collective memory -- but rather a variety of contemporaneous civil rights and their related social movements. This course explores the history, presenting a top-down (political and legal history), bottom-up (social and cultural history), and comparative (by race and ethnicity as well as region) view of America's struggles for
History^Mexico: Modern Mexico Mexico: Modern Mexico This course surveys Mexican history from the end of the colonial period to the present, with an eye to how the study of Mexican history can help us understand the Mexico of today. Topics include the historical origins of peasant rebellions and their influence on national politics; the tension between democratic pressures and elitist and exclusionary pressures on the political system; neo-liberal economic policies; the powerful influence of the Catholic church; immigration to the U.S.; and the explosive
History^Social History of Latin America: Social History of Modern Latin America Social History of Latin America: Social History of Modern Latin America Affirmation of the central state. Social conflicts in the 20th century: industrialization and agrarian conflict.
History^Brazil Brazil From 16th Century conquest and settlement to the emergence of an industrial economy during the post-1964 period of military rule. Emphasis on dependence of colony on empire, on plantation agriculture, slavery, export economy, and the transition from agrarian to industrial society.
History^Brazil Brazil From 16th Century conquest and settlement to the emergence of an industrial economy during the post - 1964 period of military rule. Emphasis on dependence of colony on empire, on plantation agriculture, slavery, export economy, and the transition from agrarian to industrial society.
History^Latin American Women Latin American Women This class surveys the experiences and impact of women in Latin America from the pre-conquest period to the present, as well as the ways that gender ideologies (like patriarchy, honor-shame, machismo) have influenced Latin American history.
History^Medieval Italy: Italy in the Age of Dante (1000-1350) Medieval Italy: Italy in the Age of Dante (1000-1350) This course is a survey of the history of northern Italy during the central Middle Ages (ca. 1000-1350). It traces the emergence, flowering, and decline of the "communes," the independent city republics that made Italian political life distinctive during the Middle Ages. The course explores the culture of these dynamic urban communities, especially emphasizing the rich visual and material culture, as well as the particular relationship between religion and society in Italy before the Renaissance.
History^Medieval England: From the Conquest to 1290 Medieval England: From the Conquest to 1290 Government, observation of government, community, religion, and social change.
History^Britain 1485-Present: Tudor Stuart Britain, 1485-1660 Britain 1485-Present: Tudor Stuart Britain, 1485-1660 The history of Britain, albeit with primary emphasis on England, from the advent of the Tudors through the revolutions of the mid-17th century. Principal concentration on political, religious, and social developments. No prerequisites other than some sense of general European history in the age of the Reformation.
History^Britain 1485-Present: Britain, 1660-1851 Britain 1485-Present: Britain, 1660-1851 This is a course about the history of Britain that asks why this small island nation was so central to how Europeans and others understood world history more generally. It looks at Britain as the paradigmatic venue of industrialization, class conflict or its absence, consumer culture, parliamentary democracy, religious tolerance, imperial expansion, and modernity generally. It begins with the aftermath of Europe's first revolution and ends with the first world's fair, 1851's Great Exhibition.
History^Britain 1485-Present: The Peculiar Modernity of Britain, 1848-2000 Britain 1485-Present: The Peculiar Modernity of Britain, 1848-2000 For many years, Britain was seen as the crucible of the modern world. This small, cold, and wet island was thought to have been the first to develop representative democracy, an industrial economy, rapid transport, mass cities, mass communication and mass culture, and, of course, an empire upon which the sun famously never set. And yet, despite this precocious modernity, imperial Britain remained a deeply traditional society unable to rid itself of ancient institutions like the monarchy, the aristocracy
History^The Peculiar Modernity of Britain, 1848-2000 The Peculiar Modernity of Britain, 1848-2000 For many years, Britain was seen as the crucible of the modern world. This small, cold, and wet island was thought to have been the first to develop representative democracy, an industrial economy, rapid transport, mass cities, mass communication and mass culture, and, of course, an empire upon which the sun famously never set. And yet, despite this precocious modernity, imperial Britain remained a deeply traditional society unable to rid itself of ancient institutions like the monarchy, the aristocracy
History^Topics in the History of the British Isles: Ireland Since the Union Topics in the History of the British Isles: Ireland Since the Union Irish history from the completion of the English conquest (1691) to the present. Topics: the formation of the British colony; the French Revolution and the beginnings of the nationalist tradition; Catholic emancipation and the origins of Home Rule; the Great Famine and the struggle of rural Ireland to the Land League; the transformation of the Catholic unionism, and the Great War; the Irish Revolution; the two Irelands, 1921-1967; Northern Ireland, troubles and terror; Ireland and Europe.
History^Canada Canada A survey of Canadian history from exploration and first settlement through colonial times to confederation and nationhood to the present.
History^Medieval Europe: From the Late Empire to the Investiture Conflict Medieval Europe: From the Late Empire to the Investiture Conflict Formulation of a West European civilization; stress on tribal settlements, the Carolingian Empire, and Christian foundations.
History^Medieval Europe: From the Investiture Conflict to the Fifteenth Century Medieval Europe: From the Investiture Conflict to the Fifteenth Century Crusades; empire, papacy and the Western monarchies; social change, the rise of towns and heresy; culture and learning. Medieval civilization at its height.
History^The Renaissance and the Reformation The Renaissance and the Reformation European history from the fourteenth to the middle of the seventeenth century. Political, social, and economic developments during this transitional period will be examined, together with the rise of Renaissance culture, and the religious upheavals of the sixteenth century.
History^Modern Europe: Old Regime and Revolutionary Europe, 1715-1815 Modern Europe: Old Regime and Revolutionary Europe, 1715-1815 The eighteenth century in Europe witnessed a series of "revolutions"--intellectual, political, and to a lesser extent, social and economic--that together constitute the birth rites of modern European society and culture. Historians collectively agree that the Enlightenment, the French Revolution, and the European expansion of Napoleonic France were events of world-historical significance, yet the causes and precise meaning of these events are the subjects of substantial disagreement. We
History^Modern Europe: Old and New Europe, 1914-Present Modern Europe: Old and New Europe, 1914-Present A survey of the main trends and forces in the history of Europe from 1914 to the present. The course stresses the interaction of political, economic, and socio-cultural changes and explores the relationship between domestic and international politics. Topics discussed include the two world wars, the rise and fall of fascism and communism, imperialism, European integration, the cultural revolution of the 1960s.
History^Old and New Europe, 1914-Present Old and New Europe, 1914-Present A survey of the main trends and forces in the history of Europe from 1914 to the present. The course stresses the interaction of political, economic, and socio-cultural changes and explores the relationship between domestic and international politics. Topics discussed include the two world wars, the rise and fall of fascism and communism, imperialism, European integration, the cultural revolution of the 1960s.
History^European Economic History European Economic History Survey of the economic and social developments of Europe up to the eve of industrialization. Including the transformation of peasant-based, agrarian economies, capitalist organization, colonial expansion, and international trade. This course is equivalent to Economics 111A; students will not receive credit for both courses.
History^European Economic History European Economic History The Industrial Revolution and the rise of the European economy to world dominance in the 19th century, emphasizing the diffusion of the industrial system and its consequences, the world trading system, and the rise of modern imperialism.
History^The International Economy of the 20th Century The International Economy of the 20th Century Development and crises of the advanced economies, with particular emphasis on trade relations with third world countries. Economic impact of war, business cycles, and social movements. This course is equivalent to Economics 115; students will not receive credit for both courses.
History^The International Economy of the 20th Century The International Economy of the 20th Century Development and crises of the advanced economies, with particular emphasis on trade relations with third world countries. Economic impact of war, business cycles, and social movements. This course is equivalent to Economics 115; students will not receive credit for both courses.
History^Europe and the World: Wars, Empires, Nations 1648-1914 Europe and the World: Wars, Empires, Nations 1648-1914 This upper division course looks at the rise and fall of the European great powers from the Peace of Westphalia, traditionally perceived as the beginning of the modern states system, to the coming of the First World War, an era of state and empire building. Economic and technological trends are naturally part of the story as well as cultural, social, and political forces. At the same time, the course highlights the decisive influence of the shakers and movers--kings, emperors, and generals.
History^War and Peace: International Relations since 1914 War and Peace: International Relations since 1914 This course analyzes the turbulent transitions from the classical European balance of power system to the global multipolar system of today. The course explores the political, economic, ideological, and technological roots of international affairs. Among topics discussed are the two world wars, inter-war collective security,the Cold War, European integration, imperialism and de-colonization, the collapse of Communism, the Middle East conflict, the rise of China and Japan, and the post-1990 international
History^Europe and the World: Wars, Empires, Nations 1648-1914 Europe and the World: Wars, Empires, Nations 1648-1914 This upper division course looks at the rise and fall of the European great powers from the Peace of Westphalia, traditionally perceived as the beginning of the modern states system, to the coming of the First World War, an era of state and empire building. Economic and technological trends are naturally part of the story as well as cultural, social, and political forces. At the same time, the course highlights the decisive influence of the shakers and movers--kings, emperors, and generals.
History^Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History from the Enlightenment to 1870 Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History from the Enlightenment to 1870 Reading primary texts, we will examine the major figures and themes in the intellectual development of Europe from Rousseau to Wagner. Included in the topics of the course will be German Idealism, Romanticism, Utopian Socialism, Marxism, Realism, Feminism and Nationalism. We will read works by Kant, Hegel, Goethe, Marx, Flaubert, Wollstonecraft, Kierkegard, and others. We will also listen to Wagner's Tristan und Isolde. The intellectual and artistic currents of the period will be set against the
History^Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History, 1870 to the Present Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History, 1870 to the Present The focus of the course will be on the social and political thought, primarily in Germany and France, with peripheral attention paid to England and Italy. Related philosophical and cultural trends will also be discussed. The readings will consist largely of selected texts which are representative of the major currents of the period.
History^Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History from Renaissance to Enlightenment Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History from Renaissance to Enlightenment Between 1500 and 1800, European thought built the foundations of modern culture, politics, economy, government, law, and religion. This course will introduce students to the period, from the Renaissance rediscovery of antiquity to the Scientific Revolution, from the theological innovation of the Reformation to the new forms of political theory that accompanied both French and American Revolutions.
History^Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History from Enlightenment to 1870 Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History from Enlightenment to 1870 Reading primary texts, we will examine the major figures and themes in the intellectual development of Europe from Rousseau to Wagner. Included in the topics of the course will be German Idealism, Romanticism, Utopian Socialism, Marxism, Realism, Feminism and Nationalism. We will read works by Kant, Hegel, Goethe, Marx, Flaubert, Wollstonecraft, Kierkegard, and others. We will also listen to Wagner's Tristan und Isolde. The intellectual and artistic currents of the period will be set against the
History^Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History 1870 to the Present Modern European Intellectual History: European Intellectual History 1870 to the Present The focus of the coruse will be on the social and political thought, primarily in Germany and France, with the peripheral attention paid to England and Italy. Related philosophical and cultural trends will also be discussed. The readings will consist largely of selected texts which are representative of the major currents of the period.
History^Social History of Western Europe Social History of Western Europe European Society from 1750 to the Present.
History^Topics in Modern European History: The Reformations of Christendom Topics in Modern European History: The Reformations of Christendom This course examines not a period but a process: the reform and disruption of the civilization called "Christendom" during the 16th and 17th centuries and its transformation into the familiar Europe of the nation states.
History^Topics in Modern European History: The World, the Picture, and the Page: The Revolution in European Culture since the late 18th Century Topics in Modern European History: The World, the Picture, and the Page: The Revolution in European Culture since the late 18th Century Europe has experienced three revolutions in the past two centuries. The first was political, the second was economic, and the third was what Raymond Williams called the "cultural revolution" - the dramatic shift from a largely oral and iconographic world to one of universal literacy and the technology of modern communications. By means of readings, lectures, discussions, films and slides, the class will examine the meaning of the revolutionary change for the lives of ordinary men and women
History^The Social and Cultural History of Early Modern Europe The Social and Cultural History of Early Modern Europe This course examines the lives of ordinary people in Europe from roughly 1300-1800. Its goal, in the words of the great social historian E.P. Thompson, is to rescue them from "the enormous condescension of posterity," exploring how the common people made their own history and used their ingenuity to shape not only their own lives but also, at key moments, the development of European modernity.
History^Modern France: Old Regime and Revolutionary France Modern France: Old Regime and Revolutionary France France from the rise of Louis XIV to the fall of Napoleon Bonaparte. The course will explore the socio-economic and political factors that allowed France to emerge as the most powerful nation in Europe under Louis XIV. We will assess the extent of the kingdom's cultural influence and the realities of everyday life under the "old regime." We will then examine the intellectual, social, political, and religious developments of the eighteenth century--such as the Enlightenment, Jansenism,
History^Modern Germany: Early Modern Germany Modern Germany: Early Modern Germany From the period of the Protestant Reformation to the era of enlightened despotism and the French Revolution, German history was characterized by severe conflicts and problems unresolved. Early Modern German history contains many lessons concerning the relationship of war and peace, of violence and toleration, of reform and renewal and the rejection of any change, of Baroque splendor and widespread misery, of some progress and much disappointment, in short: of a most complicated legacy for future
History^Modern Germany: The Rise and Fall of the Second Reich: Germany 1770-1918 Modern Germany: The Rise and Fall of the Second Reich: Germany 1770-1918 This course provides the essential foundation for understanding the catastrophic history of Germany in the 20th Century, as well as some of its successes. A central theme is the struggle to define and impose a single national identity on socially, culturally, and religiously diverse peoples in an age of Great Power conflict. Although the region now known as Germany will be the focus of our investigation, considerable attention will also be paid to the Hapsburg Empire, for until 1866 Austria was
History^Modern Germany: Germany 1914 to the Present Modern Germany: Germany 1914 to the Present This course will survey the political, economic, social, and cultural development of Germany since 1914. Special attention will be paid to the impact of World War I; problems of democratization under the impact of defeat, inflation, and depression; National Socialist racism and imperialism; the evolution of the German Federal Republic and the German Democratic Republic; unification and its problems; and modern Germany's role in Europe.
History^Spain and Portugal: The Spanish and Portuguese Empires in the Golden Age: 1450-1700 Spain and Portugal: The Spanish and Portuguese Empires in the Golden Age: 1450-1700 This course will focus on the rise and development of early modern Europe's most powerful empires. Rising from the unlikely setting of a weak and fragmented Iberian peninsula in the 15th century, the Spanish and Portuguese Empires went on to become the world's first truly global powers. As such, they had a tremendous impact on the political, economic, cultural, and religious life of not only Iberia, but on significant parts of Europe and the New World.
History^Modern Italy: Renaissance and Baroque Italy 1350-1800 Modern Italy: Renaissance and Baroque Italy 1350-1800 This course will focus on the history of Italy during a period when it was the leading center of European artistic and cultural production and the driving force in the revival of classical learning and literary ideals. This was the Italy of Raphael and Michelangelo, Ariosto and Alberti, Brunelleschi and Botticelli. At the same time, Italy was also a political battleground through most of this period, both in the realm of ideas and theory but also in a literal sense. It was in Italy that "the
History^The Netherlands The Netherlands The Lowlands from the earliest times to the present monarchy; emphasis on the Golden Age of the 17th and 18th Centuries.
History^Russia: Russia to 1700 Russia: Russia to 1700 This course examines the forces that molded Russian culture, society, and politics from earliest times to the 18th century. Lectures and readings touch upon multiple disciplines, including politics, society, economics, art, architecture, religion, and literature.
History^Russia: Imperial Russia: From Peter the Great to the Russian Revolution Russia: Imperial Russia: From Peter the Great to the Russian Revolution In 1721, Peter the Great chose the title of Emperor for himself, and declared that Russia would be an Empire. The empire lasted until the revolutions of 1917, but was never entirely stable. The Romanovs believed that autocracy was the key to good governance. Yet, the reigns of almost all the Romanov Emperors were marked by coups d'etat, peasant rebellions, and, later, assassination attempts. Russia's expanding boundaries and growing population made it even more difficult to rule. This course will
History^Russia: The Soviet Union, 1917 to the Present Russia: The Soviet Union, 1917 to the Present An introductory survey of Soviet history from the revolutions of 1917 to the present. Marxism-Leninism, War Communism, and Real Socialism; the Great Transformation and the Great Terror; family and nationality; state and society; Russia versus Soviet; Gorbachev versus the past.
History^Russian Intellectual History Russian Intellectual History This course introduces students to Russian intellectual history from the end of the eighteenth century to the beginning of the twentieth century, covering aspects of political, social, and religious thought. We will observe Russian thinkers elaborate conceptions of nationalism in a multi-ethnic empire, trying to resolve the eternal question of Russia's national identity: whether it belongs to the East or West? Next, we will move on to social thought, including debates on serfdom, populism, the "women
History^History of Eastern Europe: History of Eastern Europe: From 1900 to the Present History of Eastern Europe: History of Eastern Europe: From 1900 to the Present This course will examine the history of 20th-century Eastern Europe, understood as the band of countries and peoples stretching from the Baltics to the Balkans. Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary, however, will receive special attention. Topics of study will include foundation of the national states, Eastern European fascism, Nazi occupation, contructing Stalinist socialism, the fate of reform communism, reconstitution of "civil society," and the emergence of a new Eastern Europe. Given
History^Topics in the History of Eastern Europe: A History of Poland-Lithuania Topics in the History of Eastern Europe: A History of Poland-Lithuania The course will focus on the development of identities within the constantly shifting borders of Polish-Lithuanian and Polish states. Among the topics: competing definitions--ethnic, confessional, linguistic, political--of Polishness; continuities and discontinuities in Polish history and historiography; Poland beween East and West; the development of Polish self-perceptions; Jewish, Lithuanian, and Ukrainian identities in the Polish context; the Polish chapter in the events leading to the end of
History^Topics in the History of Eastern Europe: Poles and Others: the Making of Modern Poland Topics in the History of Eastern Europe: Poles and Others: the Making of Modern Poland This course uses the devices of historical and literary interpretation to expose and analyze some of the lines of political and cultural development that have led to the Poland we now know. Beginning with the awakening of modern Polish nationalism, it traces the emergence of this Poland through the rise of mass society; the horrifying and exhilarating spectacles of World War I and national and social revolutions; first experiments with modern Polish statehood (especially policies toward ethnic minorities
History^Jewish Civilization: Modern Period Jewish Civilization: Modern Period This is the fourth course in a four-course sequence in the history of Jewish culture and civilization. It explores the major themes in Jewish history from 1750 to the present, with special attention paid to the transformation of Jewish communal and individual identity in the modern world. Topics to be treated include the breakdown of traditional society, enlightenment and emancipation, assimilation, Hasidism, racial anti-Semitism, colonialism, Zionism, and contemporary Jewish life in Europe, North
History^Armenia: Armenia from Ethnogenesis to the Dark Ages Armenia: Armenia from Ethnogenesis to the Dark Ages This course will cover close to three millenia of Armenian history, from the process of ethnogenesis to the almost complete destruction of the Armenian "feudal" system by the end of the 15th century. This course is based on the broad framework of Armenian political history and institutions, but also emphasizes economic development, social change, and cultural transformations.
History^Armenia: From Pre-modern Empires to the Present Armenia: From Pre-modern Empires to the Present This survey course will cover the period from the incorporation of most of the Armenian plateau into the Ottoman Empire to the present day.
History^History of the Holocaust History of the Holocaust This course will survey the historical events and intellectual developments leading up to and surrounding the destruction of European Jewry during World War II. We will examine the Shoah (the Hebrew word for the Holocaust) against the backdrop of modern Jewish and modern German history. The course is divided into two main parts: (1) the historical background up to 1939; and (2) the destruction of European Jewry, 1939-1945.
History^The Life Sciences since 1750 The Life Sciences since 1750 This course will survey the development of the sciences of living nature from the mid-18th to the late-20th century. Topics include scientific and popular natural history, exploration and discovery, Darwin and evolution, cell theory, the organizational transformation of science, physiology and experimentalism, classical and molecular genetics, and the biomedical-industrial complex. Emphasis is on the formation of fundamental concepts and methods, long-term trends toward specialization, institutionalization
History^History of the Life Sciences Since 1750 (Cal Teach) History of the Life Sciences Since 1750 (Cal Teach) This course is a parallel course to 180, intended for students interested in teaching elementary or secondary school science and math. Students in the "T" course will attend the regular 180 lectures and a special section; this section will focus on techniques, skills, and perspectives necessary to apply the history of science in the juvenile and adolescent science classroom, including pedagogy, devising lesson plans for their classrooms, finding reliable historical information, and writing.
History^Topics in the History of the Physical Sciences: Modern Physics: From the Atom to Big Science Topics in the History of the Physical Sciences: Modern Physics: From the Atom to Big Science This course examines the establishment of the ideas and institutions of modern physics over the last century and a half. We begin with the nineteenth-century organization of the discipline and the debates over the classical world picture (mechanics, electromagnetism and optics, thermodynamics and statistical mechanics). We then follow the dramatic changes that undid the classical picture, from the discovery of radioactivity through Einstein's theories of relativity on to the creation of quantum
History^Topics in the History of Technology: Technology and Society Topics in the History of Technology: Technology and Society What drives technological change? How does technology transfer across different cultures? These and other related questions are examined using historical case studies of productive, military, domestic, information, and biomedical technologies from 1700 to the present. The aim of the course is for students to learn about how technology affects social change and, especially, how technological change is invariably shaped by historical and social circumstances.
History^Topics in the History of Technology: Technology and Society (Cal Teach) Topics in the History of Technology: Technology and Society (Cal Teach) This course is a parallel course to 182A, intended for students interested in teaching elementary or secondary school science and math. Students in the "T" course will attend the regular 182A lectures and a special section; this section will focus on techniques, skills, and perspectives necessary to apply the history of science in the jevenile and adolescent science classroom, including pedagogy, devising lesson plans for their classrooms, finding reliable historical information, and writing.
History^Introduction to Science, Technology, and Society Introduction to Science, Technology, and Society This course provides an overview of the field of Science and Technology Studies (STS) as a way to study how our knowledge and technology shape and are shaped by social, political, historical, economic, and other factors. We will learn key concepts of the field (e.g., how technologies are understood and used differently in different communities) and apply them to a wide range of topics, including geography, history, environmental and information science, and others. Questions this course will address
History^Health and Disease Health and Disease This course introduces major themes in the history of medicine through the lens of disease. It focuses on two questions: How have people defined well-being? How have they responded to illness? Themes considered include changing theories of disease causality, the development of international public health policy, social understandings of the body, and the growth of the pharmaceutical industry. Disease case studies will be analyzed through readings and films.
History^History of Christianity: History of Christianity to 1250 History of Christianity: History of Christianity to 1250 The course deals with the origins of Christianity and the first eleven centuries of its expansion into a major institutional, social, and intellectual force shaping Western Europe. The central themes are the mechanisms and conditions shaping this expansion, rather than a chronological account in order to present this process as a model of institutionalization of religious movements. The emphasis will be on patterns of crisis and reform; i.e., on conflicts arising within the church itself and as
History^History of Christianity: History of Christianity from 1250 History of Christianity: History of Christianity from 1250 This course follows 185A as the second of two semesters on the History of Christianity. It treats the history of (principally Western) Christianity between the High Middle Ages and the present in Europe and in the rest of the world. The course's main theme is Christianity and the encounter of cultures. Its core readings range from Thomas a Kempis, Martin Luther, and St. Teresa of Avila to Simone Weil and Dietrich Bonhoeffer. The lectures will treat social, cultural, and intellectual topics, such
History^International and Global History since 1945 International and Global History since 1945 This course explores great and complex global historical changes that have taken place since the end of the second World War. By situating the major postwar upheavals - from decolonization to the Cold War; from population growth to environmental degradation; from globalization to the endurance of economic inequalities - in comparative and international contexts, this course encourages students to see the origins of our own times and dilemmas in their proper historical context and provides an introduction
History^The History and Practice of Human Rights The History and Practice of Human Rights A required class for students in the human rights minor (but open to others), this course examines the development of human rights. More than a history of origins, it explores the relationships between human rights and other crucial themes in the history of the modern era. As a history of international trends and an examination of specific practices, it will ask students to make comparisons across space and time and to reflect upon the evolution of human rights in both thought and action.
History^Art and Science Art and Science This course explores the intersections of art and science in medieval, modern, and contemporary history. It focuses on the ways in which artistic and scientific practices have shaped and legitimated each other through the ages. The course takes the form of an overview that spans from the awakening of European culture through the reception of new knowledge from the Near East to the most recent encounters between art and technoscience in the 21st century.
History^Art and Science Art and Science In this course we explore the intersections of art and science in medieval, modern, and contemporary history. Our aim is twofold. First, to explore the close interaction between these two fields, and the way in which they have shaped each other through the ages. Second, to focus our attention on specific instances of art/science interaction, using them as prisms through which one can reach a fuller understanding of major historical transformations.
History^Death, Dying, and Modern Medicine: Historical and Contemporary Perspectives Death, Dying, and Modern Medicine: Historical and Contemporary Perspectives This course will study the end of life--dying and death--from the perspective of medicine and history. It seeks to confront the humanist with the quotidian dilemmas of modern clinical practice and medicine's deep engagement with death more generally. It invites pre-med, pre-law, and public policy students to understand these matters in light of the historical and, more broadly, literary and artistic perspectives of the humanities.
History^History of Information History of Information This course explores the history of information and associated technologies, uncovering why we think of ours as "the information age." We will select moments in the evolution of production, recording, and storage from the earliest writing systems to the world of Short Message Service (SMS) and blogs. In every instance, we'll be concerned with both what and when and how and why, and we will keep returning to the question of technological determinism: how do technological developments affect
History^Dutch Culture and Society: Amsterdam and Berkeley in the Sixties Dutch Culture and Society: Amsterdam and Berkeley in the Sixties This course will focus on the cultural aspects of protest- and youth cultures in two cities that were influential in the sixties: Amsterdam and Berkeley. Particular attention will be paid to how American popular culture was perceived in a European context. All readings and discussions in English.
History^Senior Honors Senior Honors Limited to senior honors candidates. Directed study centering upon the preparation of an honors thesis. Supervisors will be assigned to each student after consultation with the honors committee.
History^UCDC Core Seminar UCDC Core Seminar This course is the UCDC letter-graded core seminar for 4 units that complements the P/NP credited internship course UGIS C196B. Core seminars are designed to enhance the experience of and provide an intellectual framework for the student's internship. UCDC core seminars are taught in sections that cover various tracks such as the Congress, media, bureaucratic organizations and the Executive Branch, international relations, public policy and general un-themed original research.
History^UCDC Internship UCDC Internship This course provides a credited internship for all students enrolled in the UCDC and Cal in the Capital Programs. It must be taken in conjunction with the required academic core course C196A. C196B requires that students work 3-4 days per week as interns in settings selected to provide them with exposure to and experienc in government, public policy, international affairs, media, the arts or other areas or relevance to their major fields of study.
History^Special Field Research Special Field Research Students work in selected internship programs approved in advance by the faculty coordinator and for which written contracts have been established between the sponsoring organization and the student. Students will be expected to produce two progress reports for their faculty coordinator during the course of the internship, as well as a final paper for the course consisting of at least 35 pages. Other restrictions apply; see faculty adviser.
History^Directed Group Study for Upper Division Students Directed Group Study for Upper Division Students Lectures and small group discussion focusing on topics of interest that vary from semester to semester. Grading based on discussion and written work.
History^Berkeley Connect for Upper Division Students Berkeley Connect for Upper Division Students Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
History^Special Topics: Short Course Special Topics: Short Course A four-week long course permitting the instructor to cover in-depth a topic of particular interest. Topics and instructors vary; consult department catalog for details.
History^The Book as Object: the Art and Material History of the Book The Book as Object: the Art and Material History of the Book For 2,500 years, the book has dominated world culture as the primary material linguistic object. Lectures and demonstrations devoted to various aspects of the production of manuscript and printed books focusing on examining books in the collection of the Bancroft Library that exemplify, encapsulate, or represent an archetype or excellent model of the type and period(s) in which the book was published. Particular attention will be paid to the art of the book in relation to its content.
History^Japanese Studies: Past, Present... and Future? Japanese Studies: Past, Present... and Future? Offers an overview of the history and current state of the field in Japanese studies, with faculty presentations, selected readings, and orientation sessions with East Asian Library staff to acquaint participants with relevant resources for research. Requirements will include completion of course readings and preparation of a research prospectus.
History^Topics in Science and Technology Studies Topics in Science and Technology Studies This course provides a strong foundation for graduate work in STS, a multidisciplinary field with a signature capacity to rethink the relationship among science, technology, and political and social life. From climate change to population genomics, access to medicines and the impact of new media, the problems of our time are simultaneously scientific and social, technological and political, ethical and economic.
History^Science and Technology Studies Research Seminar Science and Technology Studies Research Seminar This course will cover methods and approaches for students considering professionalizing in the field of STS, including a chance for students to workshop written work.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Ancient Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Ancient To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Europe Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Europe To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: England Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: England To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: United States Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: United States To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Latin America Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Latin America To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Asia Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: Asia To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: History of Science Core Courses in the Literature of the Several Fields of History: History of Science To provide a broad survey of the literature and historiographical problems of the different fields in history.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Ancient Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Ancient For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Europe Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Europe For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: England Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: England For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: United States Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: United States For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Latin America Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Latin America For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Asia (For M.A. Candidates) Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Asia (For M.A. Candidates) For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Asia (For Ph.D. Candidates) Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Asia (For Ph.D. Candidates) For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Africa Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Africa For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Canada Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Canada For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: History of Science Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: History of Science For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Studies in Comparative History Advanced Studies: Sources/General Literature of the Several Fields: Studies in Comparative History For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Paleography and Other Auxiliary Sciences Paleography and Other Auxiliary Sciences Introduction to the scholarly handling of texts, whether ancient or modern, inscriptions or manuscripts, and instruction in the methodologies, tools, sources, and the editing and use of texts relevant to a particular field of history; instruction in any auxiliary science requisite for historical research.
History^Historical Method and Theory Historical Method and Theory Designed especially for candidates for higher degrees in History. Stress is laid on practical exercises. For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Ancient Research Seminars: Ancient For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Europe Research Seminars: Europe For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: England Research Seminars: England For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: United States Research Seminars: United States For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Latin America Research Seminars: Latin America For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Asia Research Seminars: Asia For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Africa Research Seminars: Africa For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Legal History Research Seminars: Legal History For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: History of Science Research Seminars: History of Science For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Research Seminars: Studies in Comparative History Research Seminars: Studies in Comparative History For precise schedule of offerings see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Historical Colloquium Historical Colloquium Colloquium on topics of current research. For precise schedule of offerings, see department catalog during pre-enrollment week each semester.
History^Supervised Research Colloquium Supervised Research Colloquium Preparation, presentation and criticism of research papers.
History^Directed Dissertation Research Directed Dissertation Research Directed dissertation research.
History^Teaching History at the University Teaching History at the University This class will introduce graduate students to a variety of techniques and theories used in teaching history at the university level. It will examine readings dealing with a range of classroom situations, opportunities, and challenges, with the goal of enabling future college teachers of history to understand the learning process of their students and to develop and improve their own teaching skills. The course will have two primary goals: (1) to train graduate students to work more effectively
History^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study, in consultation with the graduate adviser, to prepare for student's language examinations and the master's examination.
Biology^General Biology Lecture General Biology Lecture General introduction to cell structure and function, molecular and organismal genetics, animal development, form and function. Intended for biological sciences majors, but open to all qualified students.
Biology^General Biology Laboratory General Biology Laboratory Laboratory that accompanies 1A lecture course. Intended for biological science majors, but open to all qualified students.
Biology^General Biology General Biology General introduction to plant development, form, and function; population genetics, ecology, and evolution. Intended for students majoring in the biological sciences, but open to all qualified students. Students must take both BIOLOGY 1A and 1B to complete the sequence. Sponsored by Integrative Biology.
Education^Race and Ethnicity inside Schools Race and Ethnicity inside Schools Racial and ethnic minorities in American schools and colleges through case studies of Native Americans, Italian Americans, and Mexican Americans. Policies, practices, ideologies, experiences, and outcomes from the perspective of both the dominant and minority groups.
Education^Experiencing Education: Diversity and (In)Equality in and Beyond Schools Experiencing Education: Diversity and (In)Equality in and Beyond Schools Explores the complex relationship among diversity, equality, inequality, and educational systems by focusing on the conceptual categories of race, class, and gender in the organization of educational opportunity. Explores the ways in which these categories intersect in people's lives. Incorporates a semester-long project that enables students to develop research skills as they apply their new understandings to the educational challenges facing local districts and communities.
Education^Experiencing Education: Race and Ethnicity Inside Schools Experiencing Education: Race and Ethnicity Inside Schools Racial and ethnic minorities in American schools and colleges through case studies of African Americans, Mexican Americans, Native Americans, and selected Asian American groups. Policies, practices, ideologies, experiences, and outcomes will be analyzed and compared.
Education^Understanding Language in Society Understanding Language in Society This course explores how language is influenced by social factors. The topics include dialects and standard English, slang, and the influence of gender, identity, and bilingualism on language use, highlighting the diverse ways in which people use language to communicate with one another. A secondary objective is to teach strategies that are proven effective for successful and efficient reading, writing, learning, and studying. These strategies will be applied to the content of this class and be
Education^American Sports, Culture, and Education American Sports, Culture, and Education American sports and athletes have come to signify a complex of variegated meanings that include desire, but also disdain. Through the work of a variety of scholars, researchers, and journalists, this course explores the nature and motives of societal structures and practices (embodied in both institutions and individuals) to illuminate the intersections and reciprocal influences of society and sports. The central framework of this course draws on the notion that the space of sports is defined by
Education^Field Studies Field Studies University organized and supervised field programs involving experiences in schools and school-related activities.
Education^Reforms in Elementary Education: Psychological and Sociocultural Foundations Reforms in Elementary Education: Psychological and Sociocultural Foundations The course introduces students to relationships between research on cognitive development and reforms in elementary teaching. The syllabus is organized in modules that link research and classroom practice. For example, in a module on children's mathematics, we analyze research on children's strategies for solving math problems and consider how this research has reformed teaching practices. Students complete a project for each module that links research and observations in elementary classrooms through
Education^Early Development and Education Early Development and Education Theory and research on early childhood education and psychological development in early childhood. Directed field observation of developmental phenomena and educational practices.
Education^Practicum in Early Development and Education, Children Birth to Age 5 Practicum in Early Development and Education, Children Birth to Age 5 This course will provide students with an understanding of theories and practices in early care and education, specifically focused on children from infancy to age 5. It will also provide an opportunity for students to apply knowledge and reflect upon experiences teaching in a high-quality environment for young children. Course topics will span infant, toddler, and preschool early care and education programs and the age groups for whom such programs are designed. Special attention will be given
Education^Knowing and Learning in Mathematics and Science Knowing and Learning in Mathematics and Science This course offers a sequence of collaborative problem-solving and reflection activities through which students will be able to appreciate and develop a coherent, effective approach to the teaching and learning of any mathematical or scientific conceptual domain. Issues of cognition, culture, and pedagogy will emerge from participants' struggles to explain their own reasoning. In-class problem solving experiences will provide grist for reflection. Extensive readings are discussed in a bSpace forum.
Education^Classroom Interactions in Science and Mathematics: A Focus on Equity and Urban Schools Classroom Interactions in Science and Mathematics: A Focus on Equity and Urban Schools This course continues the process of preparing students to teach science and mathematics in secondary schools by providing opportunities to evaluate challenges they face in instructional settings. We will explore frameworks for thinking abut equity issues in the classroom and beyond school settings, learn strategies for teaching students of diverse backgrounds, and consider how classroom interactions enable students to develop a deep conceptual understanding of the subject matter.
Education^Classroom Interactions in Science and Mathematics: A Focus on Equity and Urban Schools Classroom Interactions in Science and Mathematics: A Focus on Equity and Urban Schools This course continues the process of preparing students to teach science and mathematics in secondary schools by providing opportunities to evaluate challenges they face in instructional settings. We will explore frameworks for thinking abut equity issues in the classroom and beyond school settings, learn strategies for teaching students of diverse backgrounds, and consider how classroom interactions enable students to develop a deep conceptual understanding of the subject matter.
Education^Literacy: Individual and Societal Development Literacy: Individual and Societal Development This course combines theory and practice in the study of literacy and development. It will introduce sociocultural educational theory and research focused especially on literacy teaching and learning, and this literature will be examined in practice through participation in computer-based after-school programs. In addition, the course will contribute to understanding of race, culture, and ethnicity in the United States. We will develop a view of literacy, not as a neutral skill, but as embedded
Education^Literacy: Individual and Societal Development Literacy: Individual and Societal Development This course combines theory and practice in the study of literacy and development, while simultaneously introducing students to socio-cultural educational theory and research. This research perspicaciously and critically analyzes extant literature on literacy teaching and learning. This literature will be examined in practice through participation in tutoring and technology-oriented summer programs. In addition, this course satisfies the American Cultures requirement and will contribute to understanding
Education^The Art of Making Meaning: Educational Perspectives on Literacy and Learning in a Global World The Art of Making Meaning: Educational Perspectives on Literacy and Learning in a Global World This course combines theory and practice in the study of literacy and development. It will introduce sociocultural educational theory and research focused especially on literacy teaching and learning, and this literature will be examined in practice through participation in after-school programs. In addition, the course will contribute to an understanding of how literacy is reflected in race, culture, and ethnicity in the United States and how these symbolic systems shift in a digital world.
Education^Education in a Global World Education in a Global World What is globalization? What are the implications of living in a "global world" for education? How can education be used as a tool to promote global social justice and prosperity? In this course, we will address these and other related questions through collective reading assignments, class discussions, and online collaboration through our learning platform (bSpace or other).
Education^Introduction to the Teaching of English Introduction to the Teaching of English Exploration of issues confronting English and English language arts teachers today; curriculum trends and teaching practices; influence or reform efforts since the 1950s on English and language arts curriculum and practice; course assignments to include field work, interviews, reading and reports.
Education^Literacy through Literature Literacy through Literature Exploration of the role that literature can play in the acquisition of literacy in a first and second language. Linguistic and psycholinguistic issues: orality and literacy, discourse text, schema theory, and reading research. Literary issues: stylistics and critical reading, reader response, structure of narratives. Educational issues: the literary text in the social context of its production and reception by intended and non-intended readers.
Education^Language, Culture, and Migration Practices in the Maya Diaspora Language, Culture, and Migration Practices in the Maya Diaspora This course engages a selection of themes examining the language, culture, and migration practices of indigenous immigrant youth from Yucatan (Mexico) to San Francisco and the U.S. more broadly. This course aims to raise awareness of the complex background and present-day issues that multilingual and multicultural indigenous students experience in migration and in our schools and society. While the course is aimed at undergraduate students, graduate students are welcome.
Education^Education and International Development Education and International Development This course is designed to provide a comprehensive overview of international development education. Through the use of lectures, discussions, and multimedia presentations, students will examine three core themes: 1) the purpose of education; 2) how contemporary development policy conceptualizes education; 3) education as a tool for social transformation. To the extent possible, the course draws connections between theory and practical case studies of international education programs, policy statements
Education^Foundations for Teaching Language Arts Foundations for Teaching Language Arts Lectures and workshops on curriculum, instructional theory, and methods for teaching language arts in elementary schools. Incorporates competencies for Reading Instruction Competency Assessment (RICA) and for teaching children whose primary language is not English.
Education^Foundations for Teaching Reading in Grades K-8 Foundations for Teaching Reading in Grades K-8 Introduction to reading and writing instruction in elementary school settings, basic literacy skills, instructional methods and approaches, assessment procedures, and reading and writing theories.
Education^Foundations for Teaching Social Studies Foundations for Teaching Social Studies Lectures and workshops on curriculum, instructional theory, and methods for teaching social studies methods in elementary schools.
Education^Teachers' Work Teachers' Work This course is offered as part of the undergraduate education minor, examines the multiple dimensions of teachers' work by drawing on theories of teacher socialization and teacher professional learning, and exploring representations of teachers in the media and popular culture, as well as in relevant academic literature. Students will be introduced to the current policy, social, cultural, historical, professional, employment and legal context of teachers' professional lives in the United States.
Education^Logic of Inquiry Logic of Inquiry An analysis of the logical and epistemological foundations of empirical research with the aim of developing a critical and vigorous approach to empirical inquiry, deductive and inductive logic, the structure of scientific theories, justification, falsification, the role of values, prediction and the nature of causality.
Education^Race, Identity, and Culture in Urban Schools Race, Identity, and Culture in Urban Schools This course will focus on understanding urban schools as a part of a broader system of social stratification and the process by which students in urban schools come to a sense of themselves as students, as members of cultural and racial groups, and as young people in America. Topics include racial identity; race/ethnicity in schools; urban neighborhood congtexts; and schooling in the juvenile justice system. Students will also integrate course readings with their own first-hand experience working
Education^The Politics of Educational Inequality The Politics of Educational Inequality This course explores the state of U.S. public education, particularly how success within that system varies by race, class, and gender. It explores educational attainment across different groups within the U.S. and then looks at how the structure of educational policymaking affects different types of students. It concludes by investigating the varied impact of different approaches to reform, with an eye toward identifying how best to reduce educational inequality in the United States.
Education^High School, The Movie High School, The Movie High school plays a pivotal role in American life. It both serves as a gatekeeper of educational and economic success and embodies hopes of transcending social divisions. Like high school itself, movies about it have fostered youth culture and helped Americans make sense of the intersection of democratic aspirations and social divisions. This course examines how the reality and representation of high schools combine to reflect and define American society and the lives of American youth.
Education^Philosophical Foundations of Education Philosophical Foundations of Education Systematic survey of educational thought with emphasis on the epistemological, logical and ethical foundations of the major philosophies of education.
Education^Gender and Education: International Perspectives Gender and Education: International Perspectives This course is designed to provide an overview of the major discussions and debates in the area of gender and education, from a global perspective. Examines theoretical understandings of gender, and the intersection of gender, schooling, global poverty, and social justice. Explores strategies to "undo" gender, including the role of international donor agencies, the state, NGOs, popular education, the media, sport, and innovative curricula.
Education^The Southern Border The Southern Border The southern border--from California to Florida--is the longest physical divide between the First and Third Worlds. This course will examine the border as a distinct landscape where North-South relations take on a specific spatial and cultural dimension, and as a region which has been the testing ground for such issues as free trade, immigration, and ethnic politics.
Education^Latinas/os and Education: Critical Issues and Perspectives Latinas/os and Education: Critical Issues and Perspectives The course engages a selection of themes examining the academic achievement of Latinas/os in K-12 and in higher education. The course aims to foster an awareness of the complex issues influencing the education of Latinas/os and of ways to work towards supporting and advancing the educational experiences of Latinas/os in schools and society.
Education^Native American Education: Critical Issues and Possibilities Native American Education: Critical Issues and Possibilities The course aims to foster an awareness of the complex issues influencing the education of Native people and of ways to productively work towards supporting and advancing the educational experiences of Native Americans in schools and beyond. This course critically examines themes that are central to understanding the academic achievement and attainment of Native Americans in K-12 and higher education.
Education^Democracy and Education Democracy and Education Education as a vehicle for furthering the ideals of democratic societies--critical study of principles, philosophies, theories, and practices designed to develop understanding, commitment, and skills to empower a citizenry dedicated to achieving equality, justice, and peace in the world.
Education^Critical Studies in Education Critical Studies in Education This course examines how learning environments can empower and disempower individuals and explores the role of education in the social construction of hierarchy, inequality, difference, identity, and power. It embodies a democratic philosophy and practice, creating a learning community that encourages students to take responsibility for their own education and learn through theory, experience, and dialogue. All students must engage in a community project.
Education^Unraveling Education: A Participatory Inquiry Unraveling Education: A Participatory Inquiry Course builds upon 190. Through dialogue, students will further explore critical issues and their connections. Students will form small working groups to identify, develop, investigate, and teach a topic of their choice. We will develop and emphasize multiple perspectives.
Education^Critical Studies in Education Critical Studies in Education This course examines how learning environments can empower and disempower individuals and explores the role of education in the social construction of hierarchy, inequality, difference, identity, and power. It embodies a democratic philosophy and practice, creating a learning community that encourages students to take responsibility for their own education and learn through theory, experience, and dialogue.
Education^Gender Issues in Education Gender Issues in Education This course will examine the role of gender in education and the influences on classroom discourse, curriculum, and teaching and learning styles. We will also look at current trends in school reform, how schools and alternative programs address issues of gender bias. This course will provide on opportunity to consider the experiences of students and teachers as "gendered" beings in the educational system.
Education^Environmental Education Environmental Education Theory and practice of translating ecological knowledge, environmental issues, and values into educational forms for all age levels and all facets of society, including schools. Concentrated experience in participatory education.
Education^Special Topics in the Foundations of Teaching Special Topics in the Foundations of Teaching Reading and language arts.
Education^Special Topics in the Foundations of Teaching Special Topics in the Foundations of Teaching Mathematics and science.
Education^Field Studies Field Studies University organized and supervised field programs involving experiences in schools and school-related activities.
Education^Field Studies Field Studies University organized and supervised field programs involving experiences in schools and school-related activities.
Education^Culture and Cognitive Development: Theoretical Perspectives Culture and Cognitive Development: Theoretical Perspectives The seminar explores Piaget's and Vygotsky's seminal frameworks for the analysis of cognitive development and recent extensions of their work. A focus will be on culture and its representation in treatments of cognition.
Education^Social Development Social Development An examination of theory and research on social development from childhood to early adulthood. Review of different theoretical orientations to social cognition, morality, psychosexual development, and the role of social-environmental factors.
Education^Culture and Cognitive Development Culture and Cognitive Development This course explores advanced topic in Piaget's and Vygotsky's frameworkers for the analysis of cognition development. Of particular concern is the representation of cultural processes in each treatment. Reading will include primary sources from these authors and contemporary writers who extend and critique the treatment of culture in each.
Education^Psychosocial Development: Identity, Culture, and Education Psychosocial Development: Identity, Culture, and Education This course is a doctoral seminar in developmental psychology, with a broad focus on psychosocial development and its impact on children in educational contexts. The course begins with a discussion of Erikson's psychosocial theory and the sociocultural perspectives of Vygotsky and other theorists. We then review some of the major psychosocial variables related to educational achievement, including competence, motivation, self-concept, self-efficacy, self-regulation, and volition. We touch briefly
Education^Socialization Processes within the Family Socialization Processes within the Family This course provides an overview of theoretical perspectives on family socialization. We review the empirical literature on child-rearing practices and their relationship to children's socioemotional development. We also examine family beliefs and routines in the context of culture and social class. Students in the course write a literature review on a family socialization topic of their choice.
Education^Cognitive Development: Neo Vygotskian Approaches Cognitive Development: Neo Vygotskian Approaches This seminar explores interpretations, extensions, and reformulations of Vygotsky's writings on cognitive development. The seminar will consider Vygotsky's books, Thought and Language and Mind in Society, and also read scholars who build on Vygotsky's seminal ideas--these including his students, like Luria and Leontiev, as well as contemporary writers. A focus throughout the seminar will be on activity-oriented treatments of cognition that incorporate social and historical processes.
Education^Psychology of Reading Psychology of Reading Comparison and analysis of the psychological and linguistic evidence underlying whole language and skills methods of reading instruction. Topics include reading readiness, emergent literacy, the English spelling system and decoding, vocabulary development, models of reading, individual differences, and comprehension and schema theory.
Education^Seminars in Intellectual Development Seminars in Intellectual Development Intensive examination of advanced topics, which will vary from year to year in the areas denoted by the titles of the following sections: # (1) Cognitive Development # (2) Learning and Memory Development # (3) Language.
Education^Development of Elementary Numerical Understandings Development of Elementary Numerical Understandings The seminar examines seminal and contemporary conceptual and empirical literature on the development of elementary mathematical understandings. Key themes will include: (a) children's developing mathematical understandings; (b) children's developing use of varied representational forms in problem solving (number lines, area models, discrete models); (c) children's and adults' participation in varied in-and out-of-school collective practices that support mathematical thinking
Education^Seminars in Social and Personality Development Seminars in Social and Personality Development Intensive examination of advanced topics, which will vary from year ton (1) Social Development # (2) Motivation # (3) Personality Development.
Education^Research Seminars: Inquiry in Educational Psychology Research Seminars: Inquiry in Educational Psychology The doctoral program in Educational Psychology requires that students complete extensive projects of documentary and empirical research. As they engage in these projects, students will enroll (ordinarily during alternate years) in appropriate sections of this seminar. At each meeting, participants will present their own projects, and analyze those presented by others.
Education^Instruction and Development Instruction and Development Examination of cognitive developmental approaches and their implication to instruction. Review of different learning theories that frame current issues of instructional design, teaching, and motivation, in relationship to educational equity and teacher learning/development.
Education^Individual Appraisal of Intelligence Individual Appraisal of Intelligence Theories of intelligence as applied to the assessment of intelligence, measurement concepts applied to intelligence tests, development, administration and interpretation of the WISC-R, Stanford-Binet, and other issues pertaining to intelligence testing. Current controversial issues in testing, including issues pertaining to test bias and legal aspects of testing.
Education^Diagnosis of Human Handicaps Diagnosis of Human Handicaps Reviews current criteria for eligibility for programs for the handicapped and evaluates available procedures for making diagnostic decisions. Special topics may include diagnosis of learning disabilities, mental retardation, neurological handicaps, emotional and behavioral disorders.
Education^Assessment and Education of Exceptional Pupils in Regular Classes Assessment and Education of Exceptional Pupils in Regular Classes Methods for assessment of handicapped children and implication for their education in regular classes. Such topics as nondiscriminating testing, least restrictive environments, alternative programs, parent communication, interpersonal relationships, characteristics, behavior of exceptional pupils are covered in studies of individual exceptional children in regular classes.
Education^Development, Learning, and Instruction in Cultural Contexts Development, Learning, and Instruction in Cultural Contexts Introduction to theories of human development and their application to elementary and preschool education. Topics include cognitive development, moral and social development, language acquisition, psycho-social perspectives on social-emotional development and a developmental analysis of classroom organization. Also supervised child study, individual and small group tutoring, and field experiences.
Education^Social and Emotional Development Social and Emotional Development Introduction to theories of human development and their application to elementary and preschool education. Topics include cognitive development, moral and social development, language acquisition, psycho-social perspectives on social-emotional development and a developmental analysis of classroom organization. Also supervised child study, individual and small group tutoring, and field experiences.
Education^Advanced Human Development and Education Advanced Human Development and Education Advanced principles of human development and their application to teaching and learning school subjects. Also supervised child study, individual and small group tutoring, field experiences.
Education^Advanced Human Development and Education Advanced Human Development and Education Advanced principles of human development and their application to teaching and learning school subjects. Also supervised child study, individual and small group tutoring, field experiences.
Education^Adolescent Development and the Teaching of Secondary English Adolescent Development and the Teaching of Secondary English This graduate seminar relates the goals of secondary English teaching to three major themes in the study of adolescent development: rationality, morality, and identity. These themes are then explored with reference to urban youth, along with other themes emerging from research in urban settings. The theme of identity is pursued further through a consideration of adolescents' "self-theories" and their motivational consequences. Students write papers on related topics for a class anthology.
Education^Theoretical and Scientific Bases for School Psychology, Part I: Childhood Theoretical and Scientific Bases for School Psychology, Part I: Childhood Historical and contemporary overview of the professional specialty of school psychology. Examines the empirical evidence for developmental and learning models in relation to the school curriculum and school organization for birth through pre-adolescence.
Education^Theoretical and Scientific Bases for School Psychology, Part II: Adolescence Theoretical and Scientific Bases for School Psychology, Part II: Adolescence Historical and contemporary overview of the professional specialty of school psychology. Examines the empirical evidence for developmental and learning models in relation to the school curriculum and school organization for birth through pre-adolescence.
Education^School-Based Consultation School-Based Consultation Theories of consultation, consultation methods, and research on consultation applicable to primary and secondary prevention of school failure and school psychology practice.
Education^Educational Interventions for the School Psychologist Educational Interventions for the School Psychologist Theories and procedures for individual and group assessment of children's learning and behavior problems as applied to the design of individual and group programs in the classroom.
Education^Laboratory for School Psychology Laboratory for School Psychology Laboratory section to evaluate field work records and for supervision of school assignment. Must be taken concurrently with 213A-213B-213C-213D.
Education^Human Development and Education Seminar Human Development and Education Seminar Introduction to the field of human development for first year doctoral students.
Education^Socialization Processes Within the Family Socialization Processes Within the Family This course provides an overview of theoretical perspectives on family socialization. We review the literature on parental beliefs and child-rearing practices and study how families affect children's social development. We also examine familes in the context of culture and social class. The course concludes by focusing on the relationship between families and schools. Course requirements: class participation, three short papers, reaction notebook.
Education^Towards Ambitious Instruction in Mathematics: Research Into Practice Towards Ambitious Instruction in Mathematics: Research Into Practice In this course, students learn to turn mathematics education research into practice through the vehicle of lesson design. Students work in collaborative teams consisting of one beginning mathematics teacher in a teaching credential program and one or more doctoral student researchers. Together each team is responsible for designing, justifying, implementing, researching, and re-designing a lesson that seeks to embody one key aspect of the teacher's vision of effective mathematics instruction.
Education^Scientific Cognition: Development, Learning, and Instructional Design Scientific Cognition: Development, Learning, and Instructional Design Examination of the relation between development, learning, and instruction of scientific cognition, from the perspective of the cognitive developmental and cognition and instruction research literatures. The course project takes the form of the design, implementation and microgenetic analysis of a short-term educational design experiment. Emphasis on K-8.
Education^Special Problems in Mathematics, Science and Technology Education Special Problems in Mathematics, Science and Technology Education Study of special problems and issues in education related to mathematics, science and technology. Sections may vary from semester to semester.
Education^Mathematical Thinking and Problem Solving Mathematical Thinking and Problem Solving This course explores contemporary research on mathematical cognition, with a particular emphasis on "higher order thinking skills" and mathematical problem solving. We discuss various frameworks for characterizing mathematical behavior and various methodologies for examining it. As an "action oriented" course in the EMST curricular sequence, this course includes a major course project. In their project, students engage in research incorporating the main ideas studied in the course.
Education^Paradigmatic Didactical Mathematical Problematic Situations Paradigmatic Didactical Mathematical Problematic Situations Paradigmatic Didactical Mathematical Problematic Situations are contexts for collaborative inquiry into the practice, epistemology, and pedagogy of mathematics. Building on the Learning Sciences literature, the course creates opportunities for students to engage in interesting mathematical problems from secondary-school content. Final projects include design, implementation, and analysis of a lesson. Meets the "Discipline" programmatic requirement of graduate students in EMST and MACSME.
Education^Gender, Mathematics and Science Gender, Mathematics and Science The course explores commonly asked questions concening gender, mathematics, and science. We will discuss whether these are appropriate questions and examine evidence related to the questions. This course will also consider whether policies and practices concerning gender, mathematics, and science should be changed and, if so, identify some of the steps that could be taken to improve the current situation.
Education^Survey of Current Research and Issues in Mathematics Education Survey of Current Research and Issues in Mathematics Education This course builds foundational knowledge of important contemporary issues and research in mathematics education. The seminar is designed around readings, discussion, and course activities aimed at developing a comprehensive grounding in the literature on current research and innovations in mathematics education as well as historical debates surrounding student achievement, curriculum, teaching practice, and teacher preparation.
Education^Constructive Epistemology Constructive Epistemology Many approaches to education take the knowledge to be taught as fixed, and the manipulable objects to be things like methods. By focusing on knowledge per se: what is it; how is it organized and encoded in humans, we are led to questions about what should be taught, based on principles of learnability, etc., rather than just "effective methods." This tactic is valuable in view of the radical changes information technology may have on what we need to teach and what general areas are teachable.
Education^Qualitative Methodology Qualitative Methodology The course will be organized by principal activities: group readings, book reports, expert and novice methodology presentations, in-class research and analysis, and student research. For each activity, we will look at the full breadth of methodology, from "how-to" methods and specific areas of concern to general questions including: what constitutes objective data, what are strengths and weaknesses of methods in regard to various issues, and what are the relations between theory and data?
Education^Proseminar: Problem Solving and Understanding Proseminar: Problem Solving and Understanding Students will examine problem solving in children and adults, from a predominantly cognitive science perspective, beginning with an examination of thinking involved in diverse problem types. Students will then analyze the literature concerning cognitive issues that transcend problem types, including representation, "understanding," access and availability of knowledge, access to one's own cognitive processing, categorization, the architecture of knowledge, and the control of cognition.
Education^Discourse and Learning in Math and Science Classrooms Discourse and Learning in Math and Science Classrooms This seminar is an introduction to research on how language and other forms of communication influence what and how people learn. Students are introduced to influential theories of discourse from sociolinguistics, psycholinguistics, and the philosophy of language and learn about how they have been used to understand learning, especially in math and science classrooms. Students take turns helping lead discussion and complete a project relevant to the topic and their own research interests.
Education^Conceptual Change Conceptual Change "Conceptual change" concerns broad and deep changes in a person's knowledge about a domain. This opposes it, for example, to the learning of facts and skill acquisition. The course emphasizes recent cognitive science-oriented approaches to: defining "broad and deep" learning; understanding its properties. It draws on diverse other approaches including developmental psychology; analogies to the history of science; "misconceptions;" computational and epistemological approaches.
Education^Introduction to Secondary School Introduction to Secondary School Seminars, lectures, workshops to meet requirements for the single subject credential. Subject areas include educational psychology; instructional strategies; learning processes; and secondary school mathematics, science, and technology.
Education^Elementary Teaching in Mathematics and Science Elementary Teaching in Mathematics and Science Curriculum, instructional theory, and methods for teaching mathematics and science in elementary schools.
Education^Science Education for Elementary School Children Science Education for Elementary School Children This course examines how to effectively teach science to elementary school children through analyses of what it means to think scientifically, the goals of science instruction, the nature of children's scientific reasoning and its relation to instructional opportunities, critical study and revision of different curricula, and examination of excellent instruction.
Education^Elementary Teaching in Mathematics Elementary Teaching in Mathematics This course is designed to strengthen methods for students' mathematical development. Students will gain facility with methods that support the learning of children with diverse instructional needs. The course emphasizes an inquiry-based approach that includes the use of rich problems, appropriate tools and representations, various discourse formats, and ongoing assessment.
Education^Language Study for Educators Language Study for Educators This course will introduce students to the broad areas of language study and explore the implications of such study for teaching and learning. Among course topics are: the nature of language, the meanings of "grammar," the varieties of English, the development of language in the preschool and school years. This course will be required for all Ed.D. students and recommended as an introductory course to all students who have had no formal coursework in linguistics.
Education^Theoretical Issues in the Study of Literacy Theoretical Issues in the Study of Literacy Students will review trends in literacy theory, and then will examine current theories of written language acquisition and literacy learning. Connections will be made between research, theory, and practice.
Education^Issues in First and Second Language Acquisition Issues in First and Second Language Acquisition This course deals with issues related to language learning and development in school-age children. How do they acquire the language skills needed for literacy and academic development? How do children make the transition from home to school language use? How do children learn a second language? What happens when learning a second language results in the loss of the first language? We will consider the educational, social and cognitive implications of these issues.
Education^Foundations of Curriculum Theory in the United States: A Survey Foundations of Curriculum Theory in the United States: A Survey This course explores the development of curriculum theory and the role of the curriculum specialist in the United States since the Progressive Period. Emphasizing a survey of classic texts and key figures, the course covers the development of three schools of thought: social efficiency approaches, child-centered approaches, and social reconstructionist approaches. It concludes with a study of curriculum theory since the Reconceptualists.
Education^Language Socialization Language Socialization Throughout the lifespan we are socialized through language to become competent participants and members of various groups and communities, including schooling institutions. For the past 20 years, this theory and method for analyzing human development has made important contribution to our understanding of how we learn to become competent members of community, how we learn through language, and how we are socialized into language. This course will provide opportunities to overview the theoretical
Education^Narrative across Learning Contexts Narrative across Learning Contexts The study of narrative has solidified into an important body of literature that is of particular relevance to educators. Across learning contexts, narrative is a ubiquitous literacy tool, and as such, it underlies many learning activities. We tell narratives for their potency to explain, rationalize, and delineate past, present, and possible experience. This narrative act is a collaborative undertaking, co-told and designed with the audience's input, addressing an audience's present and future concerns.
Education^Perspectives on Classroom Discourse Perspectives on Classroom Discourse This course is designed to provide opportunities for students to observe and analyze classroom talk and interaction, and the language of classroom material and ideological artifacts. In this course we will survey the classic literature on classroom discourse and we explore new orientations to the study of classroom talk. We will draw from literature from interrelated disciplinary perspectives that include linguistics, language socialization, linguistic anthropology, conversation analysis, ethnomethodology
Education^Design, Practice, and Policy in Educational Settings for English Language Learners Design, Practice, and Policy in Educational Settings for English Language Learners We will examine the instructional design, practice, and policies that shape educational contexts for English Language Learners (ELLs) in urban schools. The topics address the relationship between language policy, immigration, language development, and the intersections of race and ethnicity. The course will also survey key research on language use, bilingualism, and second language acquisition and how the findings of this research are reflected on educational practices and policies.
Education^Methods for Teaching English in the Secondary Schools Methods for Teaching English in the Secondary Schools This methods course introduces the teaching of secondary English. It focuses on theories for grounding classroom decisions and connects theory and practice. The course models effective approaches to teaching English and introduces issues in constructing a secondary English curriculum. Students gain a foundation for developing plans for lessons and units of instruction as well as a sense of how to build academic communities of diverse learners, including non-native speakers of English.
Education^Methods for Teaching English in the Secondary Schools Methods for Teaching English in the Secondary Schools The second semester of the methods course is designed to continue introducing the teaching of English, with a focus on strategies grounded in an understanding of theories of teaching and learning. Besides considering the English curriculum in general, the course focuses special attention on several topics, such as second language learners and the uses of technology in the English classroom. It also explores the uses of portfolios for tracking student learning and for assessing teachers' growth.
Education^Approaches in Teaching English as a Second Language Approaches in Teaching English as a Second Language This course is primarily concerned with methods of teaching English as a second language (ESL) to K-12 students and adults. Traditional methods emphasizing the development of structural knowledge, and new methods focused on the development of communications skills, will be examined. Topics include teaching English through content instruction, "structured English immersion," syllabus and curriculum design, second language reading, and language testing for placement and evaluation.
Education^Teaching Linguistic and Cultural Minority Students Teaching Linguistic and Cultural Minority Students The objective of this course is to prepare teachers to work with linguistic minority students. We will consider ways in which different groups socialize children for learning and ways in which learning patterns acquired in the home can conflict with the culture of school. Student teachers will consider instructional approaches for working with linguistically and culturally diverse students in their classrooms.
Education^New Literacies of Digital Youth New Literacies of Digital Youth This course explores new practices of literacy by contemporary youth enabled by digital technologies in places beyond schools. It also assesses how these practices work to enhance or impede literacy and social development in schools. It develops a New Literacy Studies conceptual framework and an ethnography of communications methodological framework for students to understand and analyze these new literacy practices.
Education^Strategies for Teaching Students with Reading/Language Arts Difficulties Strategies for Teaching Students with Reading/Language Arts Difficulties 249A is closely related to and dependent upon 249B. 249A examines the development of curricula in reading and the language arts that addresses the strengths and weaknesses determined in the assessment process developed in 249B. Emphases include: formal and informal assessment procedures in reading for majority/minority populations, diagnostic teaching (including issues of cultural diversity,) individual and group instructional strategies for scaffolding learning, including cooperative learning/interactivae
Education^Evaluation and Assessment in Reading and Literacy Instruction Evaluation and Assessment in Reading and Literacy Instruction Explores both formal (e.g., standardized measures) and informal (e.g., reading inventories, portfolios) measures of assessing reading and writing ability. The course is designed to familiarize students with the most widely used reading measures, to develop competency in administering and interpreting these measures, and to develop an understanding of current issues in the assessment of reading comphrehension. Students will explore the issues of cultural bias in testing, the organization and display
Education^Foundations in Reading (Learning from Text) for Secondary Schools Foundations in Reading (Learning from Text) for Secondary Schools Introduction to reading and writing in secondary school settings, basic literacy skills, instructional materials and approaches, and assessment procedures appropriate for use in secondary content area courses. Learning from text theory to practice.
Education^Qualitative Research in Language/Literacy Education Qualitative Research in Language/Literacy Education Focuses on students' and teachers' use of language from interrelated perspectives, particularly developmental, sociolinguistic, and ethnographic. Designed to provide students with a view of the classroom as a unique setting whose aims are fostered or rendered problematic by the nature of language use. Students conduct small-scale studies in classroom settings.
Education^Second Language Acquisition: Concepts and Theories Second Language Acquisition: Concepts and Theories Psycholinguistic theory and research on the acquistion of second languages by learners at secondary and post-secondary institutions. How do adults learn languages other than their own in instructional settings? What skills can they transfer from their native languages, and literacy in L1 transfer to the way the L2 is used in its spoken and written forms? Exploration of various hypotheses and theories that consider language learning from a linguistic, cognitive and discourse perspective. Topics include:
Education^Discourse Analysis Discourse Analysis Examination of the major linguistic, psycho- and sociolinguistic concepts and theories of discourse and their application to the analysis of spoken and written texts in education. Topics include: coherence and cohesion, deixis, speech acts, genres, systematics of conversation and ritual constraints, scripts and frames, information structure, narrative structure.
Education^Language and Identity Language and Identity Relationship between language as social practice and the construction of individual and collective identity, and its significance in educational contexts. Topics covered include language as embodied practice, language and subjectivity, pedagogy and symbolic control, language learning as mediated action and as the social symbolic construction of identity, writing and textual identity, authorship and voice, language learning memoirs as acts of identity, the politics of recognition, linguistic human
Education^Multilingualism Multilingualism Many people today grow up, live and work in different languages and cultures. How do they experience the superdiversity of today's world? This course gives a multidisciplinary overview of individual and societal multilingualism with particular focus on: language standardization, linguistic diversity and hybridity, language rights and ideologies, the challenges presented by heteroglossia, multimodality, multiliteracy and the multilingual identity of the multilingual individual.
Education^Reading Research: Sociocognitive Perspective Reading Research: Sociocognitive Perspective An examination of selected topics on reading research including historical aspects of reading research, word recognition, reading comprehension, the relationship between decoding and comprehension, attitudes toward reading, and models of the reading process.
Education^The Ethnography of Reading The Ethnography of Reading This course approaches reading as a socio-cultural activity and considers recent ethnographic work on reading practices in different educational settings, communities, and historical epochs. By considering how reading is differently conceived and realized in a wide range of contexts, this course will shed light on reading as a historically contingent, ideologically shaped, and socio-culturally organized practice. More specifically, this course has a twofold aim: 1) to introduce students to recent
Education^Research in Writing Research in Writing Critical examination of major theories and approaches to research in writing. Preparation for designing and conducting research projects on the written language.
Education^Theoretical Foundations for the Cultural Study of Sport in Education Theoretical Foundations for the Cultural Study of Sport in Education The cultural study of sport examines the ways in which institutionalized physical activity embodies and reflects social meanings and identities. The social practice of sport provides a space in which dominant discourses of race, gender, and social class are reproduced and resisted. As these physical activities become institutionalized, commercialized, and embedded within educational institutions themselves, individuals must navigate a nuanced and often conflicted terrain in their respective participation
Education^Academic Support Services for Student Athletes Academic Support Services for Student Athletes The increased institutionalization and regulation of intercollegiate athletics have created a new and specialized career field composed of counselors, academic advisers, learning specialists, tutors, and technological and administrative support staff. This course will investigate the historical, philosophical, and ethical foundation of these services, focusing in particular on the analysis of an academic advising and tutorial program for student athletes.
Education^Issues in Educational Administration and Policy Issues in Educational Administration and Policy (Required of all students in the Division of Educational Administration and Evaluation.) Concepts, theories, and issues related to administration and evaluation. Application is made to governmental policy for school systems.
Education^Issues in Urban Educational Leadership I Issues in Urban Educational Leadership I This course gives candidates an opportunity to pull together the four concentration areas of the master's program: Teaching and Learning (TI), Educational Organizational Leadership and Management (EOLM), Education Change and Reform (ECR), and Issues in Urban Education (IUE). Graduate candidates will deepen their inquiry through the use of problem-solving and reflection as they apply the theory of course work to the daily reality of becoming leaders in schools.
Education^Issues in Urban Educational Leadership Issues in Urban Educational Leadership This course will provide students the opportunity to make connections between theory and practice as candidates look forward to positions as site-based leaders.
Education^Good Schools for All Children Good Schools for All Children The course brings together three bodies of knowledge, developed by people who often work quite separately in the academy: philosophical discourses on the aims of education; research on effective schools and instruction; socio-cultural critiques of schooling inequities. Our quest in this course is to derive from these bodies of theory a conceptualization of the good school around the aims of performance, understanding, and justice.
Education^Organization Theory in Education and Other Social Services Organization Theory in Education and Other Social Services Concepts of power, authority, legitimacy, professions, controls, incentives, etc., as they apply to education or other social services.
Education^Urban School Leadership and Management 1 Urban School Leadership and Management 1 The purpose of this course is to ground aspiring urban leaders in the essential ideas and values that guide their work in schools and their studies in the Principal Leadership Institute. It provides opportunities for future school leaders to deepen their notions of what socially just schools look like, and why; to analyze the challenges to creating socially just schools in urban centers; and to imagine the possible actions that leaders can take to promote such schools.
Education^School Supervision: Theory and Practice School Supervision: Theory and Practice Concepts and practices associated with the analysis of teaching and clinical supervision of teachers in urban systems. The role of the urban school leader in supervising teachers.
Education^Personnel Administration in School Systems and Social Organizations Personnel Administration in School Systems and Social Organizations Concepts and practices related to the administration of personnel services in urban school systems and social organizations.
Education^Research Group on the Working Lives of Teachers Research Group on the Working Lives of Teachers Research group for graduate students specializing in research on teachers' work and organizational and policy contexts of teaching. Complements but does not substitute for foundational course work in research methods or substantive areas of specialization. Strengthens preparation for research through (a) consultation and feedback on research design, data collection, analysis, and writing; and (b) reading and discussion on selected topics related to teachers' work.
Education^Organizational Policy and Teachers' Work Organizational Policy and Teachers' Work Students will examine the ways in which state, district, and workplace policy bears upon various aspects of teachers' work. Special emphasis is given to the way in which policy choices--at whatever level--shape the experience of teaching and the organization of schooling. Among the policy areas considered are those governing membership in the teaching occupation, teaching assignments, classroom autonomy regarding curriculum and instruction, performance evaluation, and opportunities for professional
Education^Research on the Education of Teachers Research on the Education of Teachers The course focuses on research on the education of prospective and practicing teachers, and on the institutional, organizational and policy contexts in which that research has been pursued. It is designed for students who are interested in doing research in this field or in becoming teacher educators, and is built on several organizing questions. What is the work (and workplace) for which teachers are being prepared? What is the occupational conception of teaching that underpins practice, policy
Education^Urban School Leadership and Management 2 Urban School Leadership and Management 2 The purpose of this course is to build on the essential ideas and values discussed in EDUC 262A: Urban School Leadership and Management I by focusing on effective teaching. This instructional vision guides the work of leaders in schools. It provides opportunities for future school leaders to deepen their notions of what socially just schools look like, and why; to analyze the challenges to creating socially just schools in urban centers; and to imagine the possible actions that leaders can take
Education^Legal Issues in Educational Practice Legal Issues in Educational Practice Legal structures and practices in Education for teachers and counselors. Teacher, pupil, counselor rights and responsibilities.
Education^Legal and Policy Issues in Urban Educational Leadership Legal and Policy Issues in Urban Educational Leadership This course will explore the statutory and judicial constraints upon local descision making as well as the areas in which site decision making is permitted and required.
Education^Economics of Education and Other Social Services Economics of Education and Other Social Services Topics to be considered include the following: alternative methods of assessing the contribution of education to economic growth, demand for education services, education production functions, cost analysis and sectorial planning, economic aspects of innovation.
Education^Research Advances in Race, Diversity, and Educational Policy Research Advances in Race, Diversity, and Educational Policy This introductory graduate seminar will engage the research literature on race, diversity, and educational policy to provide a foundation for examining contemporary issues in American public schooling. We will examine research on race, culture, and learning alongside more policy driven research on school structures, governance, finance, politics, and policy. In doing so, we will blend micro level examinations of teaching and learning with macro level considerations of politics and policy.
Education^School Site Finance and Resources 1 School Site Finance and Resources 1 The purpose of this course is to ground aspiring urban school leaders in the essential concepts, skills, and demands related to managing school finance and resources at the site level. Specifically, it will focus on resource allocations and concepts of equity with resources allocations.
Education^School Site Finance and Resources II School Site Finance and Resources II The purpose of this course is to ground aspiring urban school leaders in the essential concepts, skills, and demands related to managing school finance and resources at the site level. Specifically, it will focus on understanding funding sources, analyzing resource allocations, governance related to resource allocations, and leveraging different types of resources.
Education^Citizenship, Democracy, and Education Research Group Citizenship, Democracy, and Education Research Group Research group for graduate students whose work focuses on the role of schools in impeding or promoting social, economic, cultural, and political democracy. Provides extensive feedback on all phases of research and its application to the democratization of education. Topics range depend on students' interests and range from curriculum and pedagogy to the evolution of social movements for racial justice in education.
Education^BEAR Center Seminar BEAR Center Seminar This seminar constitutes one of the ways in which the Berkeley Evaluation and Assessment Research (BEAR) Center fulfills its role of supporting student research. The topic of the seminar will change from semester to semester, following themes chosen by the instructor and the participants. The seminar is an opportunity for students and faculty to present their recent and ongoing work for in-depth review and commentary. In addition, visitors to the campus with expertise relevant to the topic(s) under
Education^Introduction to Qualitative Research Methods Introduction to Qualitative Research Methods Introduces principles and methods commonly associated with qualitative field research in the social sciences. Includes assigned readings on basic methodological topics; structured activities related to research design, research ethics and human subjects protection, data collection, data organization and reduction, data analysis; and field research experience through individual or team projects. Course satisfies the qualitative methods requirement for students in the Policy, Organization, Measurement
Education^Issues in Teaching and Learning for Educational Leaders I Issues in Teaching and Learning for Educational Leaders I This course explores the educational contexts and experiences of teachers and students in urban schools. The topics that we will cover include issues of race and privilege, the relationship between good teaching and learning in the context of immigration, desegregation efforts, and educational policies towards linguistic and culturally diverse students. We will discuss the politics of access and inclusion, in particular we will examine issues affecting the performance of language learners.
Education^Issues in Teaching and Learning for Educational Leaders II Issues in Teaching and Learning for Educational Leaders II In this course we will build on the topics discussed in EDUC 271E: Issues in Teaching and Learning for Educational Leaders I by exploring the issues of personal identity and vision related to school contexts. To this end, the readings provide theoretical approaches to help you develop and support claims about your personal identity as well as the interplay of personal identity in schools. The assignments are designed to help you develop and refine a personal vision for working in diverse educational
Education^Research Methods in Educational Leadership: Qualitative Methods Research Methods in Educational Leadership: Qualitative Methods This course introduces future educational leaders to the world of qualitative research so that they will be able to read qualitative studies intelligently, and learn to design and conduct qualitatively oriented studies themselves. Beginning with an overview of the epistemological assumptions behind different kinds of research, the course will explore various types of qualitative research approaches and the kinds of topics and queries they support. Students will read and critique examples of published
Education^School Data Analysis for Principals School Data Analysis for Principals The course focuses on preparing future school leaders for leading school improvement by using statistical analysis, understanding the use of formative assessments, evaluating and using educational research particularly related to instructional materials and best practices, creating an effective PowerPoint presentation, and understanding different types of classroom grading and grade reporting practices. Term assessments include keys to quality assessment audit, best practice case study, research-based
Education^Research Group on Policy Implementation Research Group on Policy Implementation This year-long research and writing group is intended for graduate students who plan to specialize in studying educational policy implementation. In the course, we will investigate what happens from the time a policy is enacted until the policy is actually implemented in classrooms, schools, and districts. The centerpiece of the research group is reviewing and providing feedback to members on their works-in-progress related to policy implementation. The goal is to strengthen participants' preparation
Education^Decision Making Based on Data Evidence Decision Making Based on Data Evidence This course builds on the premise that data evidence is one of the powerful tools that can help us make informed decisions. The course plans to examine and practice effective and thoughtful use of data for educational improvement at all levels of a school district. Main topics include: evaluating policy, programs, and interventions; understanding assessment and key accountability indicators; and becoming a critical consumer of research and evaluation.
Education^Decision Making II Decision Making II This course is about decision making in the real world. It reviews research on how decision making actually unfolds in schools and school districts and the range of factors that shape it. We begin with cognitive factors, move on to investigate social and organizational factors, and then investigate political factors that influence decision making.
Education^Measurement in Education and the Social Sciences I Measurement in Education and the Social Sciences I Students will learn good measurement practice by constructing an instrument and investigating its measurement properties (specifically, validity, and reliability). The act of measuring will be positioned as a link between qualitative observations and quantitative measures, and this will be discussed in a variety of contexts, such as interviewing, standardized testing, and performance assessment. We will discuss both classical and modern testing approaches from conceptual and practical points of
Education^Measurement in Education and the Social Sciences II Measurement in Education and the Social Sciences II An introduction to classical test theory and item response theory from a theoretical viewpoint. Application of these techniques to a practical measurement situation will be studied. Topics such as test bias, computerized and polytomous response modes will be discussed.
Education^Research Seminar in Measurement Research Seminar in Measurement The seminar will address a current research issue in the area of educational and psychological measurement. Topics will vary from year to year. Some examples are polytomous item response theory, measurement of cognitive processes and learning, and assessment issues in evaluation.
Education^Multidimensional Measurement Multidimensional Measurement Exploratory factor analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and multidimensional item response theory.
Education^Data Analysis in Educational Research II Data Analysis in Educational Research II A second course in educational statistics and data analysis. Emphasis is on using and interpreting multiple regression, loglinear models, and the analysis of variance for a variety of data sets and with a variety of analytic objectives. Must be taken concurrently with the computer laboratory Education 275L.
Education^Hierarchical and Longitudinal Modeling Hierarchical and Longitudinal Modeling The course introduces hierarchical linear and generalized linear models for longitudinal or clustered data. Such models are important in education research where longitudinal development such as learning is of interest and where students are clustered in classes or schools. Other examples of clustering are people nested in neighborhoods, hospitals, or firms. Students will practice formulating and estimating hierarchical models using either educational data sets provided or their own data sets.
Education^Research Group in Multilevel Modeling Research Group in Multilevel Modeling Multilevel models are useful when the units of observation are grouped in clusters such as students in schools, patients in hospitals, or prisoners in prisons. The research group is for students who wish to analyze such data or who have an interest in the methodology. In each meeting, we will either discuss students' ongoing research projects, or a methodological topic of interest. Readings (papers, chapters, drafts of student projects) will be distributed a week in advance.
Education^Educational Data Analysis Laboratory II Educational Data Analysis Laboratory II Students use the program SYSTAT to do intermediate and advanced data analysis projects using a variety of educational data sets in conjunction with 275B. Assumes basic familiarity with the statistical program SYSTAT. Must be taken concurrently with 275B.
Education^Introduction to Program Evaluation Introduction to Program Evaluation This course provides an introduction to the field of program evaluation ("programs" might be curriculum innovations, school reorganizations, teacher training reforms, instructional methods innovations, funding programs, or programs in the health or welfare areas). It will give an overview of issues of concern to practicing evaluators, researchers, program managers, and academics interested in field-based research. Those taking the course will be introduced to the history of the field,
Education^Practicum in Evaluation Practicum in Evaluation For students involved in an evaluation or assessment project as graduate student researchers or part of a practicum or apprenticeship experience. The purpose of this course is to integrate practical experiences with evaluation theory and research literatures relevant to specific evaluation questions or methods. Also provides additional instructional support to students using project data in courses, position papers, dissertations. Readings relate to evaluation topics (e.g., evaluation of professional
Education^Theoretical Issues in Evaluation Theoretical Issues in Evaluation In this seminar, we will engage in a critical examination of various scholars' theoretical perspectives on some of the fundamental issues in evaluation practice, understand why we should care about these issues and what theorists have to say, how theorists' perspectives reflect their disciplinary training, methodological preferences, and/or their personal evaluation experiences, and the extent to which their theoretical perspectives are or are not connected with evaluation practice.
Education^Research Design and Methods for Program and Policy Evaluation Research Design and Methods for Program and Policy Evaluation This course, designed to graduate students with some prior training to quantitative research methods, will introduce students to a toolkit of methods to enable them to address issues related to "what works" in program and policy evaluation. In addition, the course intends to help students understand the assumptions implicit in each of these approaches. Topics include (1) validity, threats to validity, and causal inference framework: (2) randomized experiments and quasi-experiment designs
Education^Systemic Educational Reform I Systemic Educational Reform I At the conclusion of this course you should be able to understand the history of and core concepts associated with accountability and systemic reform, especially those associated with No Child Left Behind and California accountability policy; analyze the strengths and weaknesses of various accountability schemes, particularly in terms of their likely effect on student academic achievement, teacher effectiveness, and organizational flexibility and responsiveness; forge closer connections among your
Education^Systemic Educational Reform II Systemic Educational Reform II This is the second of three courses connected to the thematic area Systemic Educational Reform: theory, policy, and practice, and is intended for second-year students in the UC Berkeley/CSU Joint Doctoral Program on Leadership for Educational Equity (JDP). The purpose of this course is to examine the theoretical assumptions and empirical evidence related to the capacity of school districts to promote educational effectiveness across geographically distributed educational settings, including schools
Education^Excellence and Equity in Education I: Inequality and Equity Excellence and Equity in Education I: Inequality and Equity The issues of inequality, of various kinds, and of equity, again with many different conceptions, have been central to debates over American schooling, particularly in urban areas. This course provides a conceptual framework to begin understanding the different dimensions of inequality and equity. As part of the theme in the Joint Doctoral Program of "Achieving Excellence and Equity in Practice," it will be followed by additional courses that examine certain topics in greater depth.
Education^Excellence and Equity 2: The Dynamics of Improving Schools and Districts Excellence and Equity 2: The Dynamics of Improving Schools and Districts The design of this course starts from the assumption that the question of "what works" in schools is not easily answered. Much of it depends on what sorts of outcomes educators value and hinges on specific conditions schools and districts face. The course aims at developing and refining judgment by looking in-depth at improvement strategies, interventions, or levers for change employed by urban school districts. Given that the theme of the course is school improvement and, given LEEP students'
Education^Milestone 2: Mapping the Professional Knowledge Base Milestone 2: Mapping the Professional Knowledge Base This second milestone course continues students' development of their knowledge base in relation to their established problem of practice. The purpose of the course is to ensure that this process is focused and fruitful, as students take the first steps in applying their new knowledge to a design development study. At the end of the course, students' first milestone paper should be ready for approval.
Education^Milestone 4:Research Design and Methodology Milestone 4:Research Design and Methodology The fourth course in the LEEP milestone sequence moves students from the exploration of the professional knowledge base to the design of their dissertation study. The main course objective is the completion of milestone 2: the writing of a paper on the design and methodology of the dissertation study. Together with the first milestone paper (Exploring the Knowledge Base) and the third milestone paper (Dissertation Prospectus), this paper should qualify students to participate in the qualifying exam
Education^Resource Management 1 Resource Management 1 This course examines management tools and financial methods of effective leadership of school districts in California. The course will present strategies from both business and educational perspectives and will challenge conventional financial management practices in California school systems. Specific areas of emphasis will be on maximizing the effective use of educational resources (e.g., financial analyses, budget techniques, cost analyses, management information systems), understanding the constraints
Education^Resource Management 2 Resource Management 2 In general, the purpose of this course is to prepare a new generation of superintendents. This course will expand on the foundation laid in the Budgeting 1 class, which serves as a "bootcamp" for fundamental management skills and concepts used in business and nonprofit organizations. The topics covered will be more focued on developing knowledge and skills needed by superintendents and educational leaders in the present.
Education^Proseminar: Sociocultural Critique of Education Proseminar: Sociocultural Critique of Education These interdisciplinary seminars address a series of questions. In what ways can philosophical, sociological, anthropological, historical, and psychological forms of inquiry be brought together to bear on the analysis of learning, on schooling, and on education more generally? What do we mean by critical and interpretive theories, and what are their relations with social practice? How can education come to constitute itself otherwise than in its current form?
Education^Proseminar: Sociocultural Critique of Education Proseminar: Sociocultural Critique of Education These interdisciplinary seminars address a series of questions. In what ways can philosophical, sociological, anthropological, historical, and psychological forms of inquiry be brought together to bear on the analysis of learning, on schooling, and on education more generally? What do we mean by critical and interpretive theories, and what are their relations with social practice? How can education come to constitute itself otherwise than in its current form?
Education^Research Apprenticeship and Qualitative Methodology Seminar I Research Apprenticeship and Qualitative Methodology Seminar I The emphasis in this course is on the practice of research. Each student, ordinarily in the second year of graduate study, develops a research project with a faculty mentor and carries it out under direction. At the same time, students work together in this seminar. Short written assignments during the first eight weeks result in a research proposal to be carried out by the end of the semester. Students spend about 50 hours on the field research.
Education^Research Apprenticeship and Qualitative Methodology Seminar II Research Apprenticeship and Qualitative Methodology Seminar II This is the second in a sequence of courses on the practice of research. In the first semester students work with faculty mentors and in the seminar to carry out a field research project. Continuing both apprenticeship and seminar, this semester is devoted to analyzing the field materials and preparing a paper on the research.
Education^Historical Perspectives on American Education Historical Perspectives on American Education Public schooling today reflects a long evolution, producing an institution that embodies social inequalities as well as democratic aspirations. Politicians, teachers, school reformers, and others interested in education invoke elements of this history to justify their efforts. This course examines the relationship of the changing goals, organization, and practices of American schools to broader social, economic, political, and intellectual developments.
Education^Popular Education Popular Education The empowerment of adults through democratically structured cooperative study and action directed toward achieving more just and peaceful societies within a life-sustaining global environment. The historical development of theory and practice as well as the current state of this major international educational movement and its associated research model--participatory research--will be examined using case studies and theoretical works. Our principal method will be dialogue.
Education^Urban Education Urban Education This course will explore the relationship between macroeconomic and political trends and public education in inner city schools. The impact of these larger societal phenomena upon drop-out rates, school climate, teacher morale, and academic achievement will be investigated through a combination of reading and field research in Oakland and Berkeley schools. An examination and evaluation of current proposals for reform of urban schools will also be included.
Education^Philosophy of Education Philosophy of Education Philosophical analysis applied to current educational problems and key concepts.
Education^Globalization and International Education Globalization and International Education What is globalization? What are the implications of living in a "global world" for educational systems? In this course, we explore these questions by first examining various theoretical perspectives on globalization. We will then discuss several major developments associated with globalization that are affecting different levels of education (from primary to university) including the rise in accountability and testing, skills for the "knowledge" economy, and immigration. We will
Education^The Education of African-American Students The Education of African-American Students This seminar will examine a wide range of perspectives on the education of African American children and adolescents in the United States. Readings will support students in understanding some of the key issues and tensions in African American education and school achievement, including the roles that culture, identity, parents, families, and communities play in the education and schooling of African American students; systemic issues in educational improvement and the perpetuation of "achievement
Education^Race, Gender, and Immigration: Citizenship and Education Race, Gender, and Immigration: Citizenship and Education U.S. citizenship has been defined in racialized and gendered terms since the nation's founding. This course explores how those definitions have affected the historical development of U.S. public schooling, particularly the unequal educational opportunities available to racial minorities and women, and how they have affected American approaches to civic education.
Education^Intersectionality in Education Research Intersectionality in Education Research This course is designed to explore the theoretical and methodological questions raised by the concept of intersectionality - the idea that human beings possess multiple identities simultaneously. Most of the work in this area has been theoretical. This course acquaints students with that theoretical literature and helps them apply these theories in their empirical work. The goal is to provide students with the background necessary to incorporate intersectionality into their future research.
Education^Comprehensive Health Education for Teachers Comprehensive Health Education for Teachers This course addresses California's requirements for comprehensive school health education; finding and presenting reliable, trustworthy health information. Elementary teachers will focus on their responsibilities as primary health instructors. Secondary teachers will focus on the meaning and application of health education in their domain. Using a wiki online format the teachers will create one lesson plan, and a rubric for evaluating online health tools. This course is web-based.
Education^Special Topics Seminars: Policy, Organization, Measurement, and Evaluation Special Topics Seminars: Policy, Organization, Measurement, and Evaluation Topics to vary from semester to semester and section to section.
Education^Special Topics Seminars: Education in Language, Literacy, and Culture Special Topics Seminars: Education in Language, Literacy, and Culture Topics to vary from semester to semester and section to section.
Education^Special Topics Seminars: Cognition and Development Special Topics Seminars: Cognition and Development Topics to vary from semester to semester and section to section.
Education^Special Topics Seminars: Special Topic Seminar Special Topics Seminars: Special Topic Seminar Topics to vary from semester to semester and section to section.
Education^Special Topics Seminars: Special Topics Seminar Special Topics Seminars: Special Topics Seminar Topics to vary from semester to semester and section to section.
Education^Purposes and Values in Urban Educational Leadership Purposes and Values in Urban Educational Leadership This course examines the relationships among multiple and often competing purposes of public education, dilemmas rooted in a history of persistent race- and class-linked inequities in American schools, and the possibilities and challenges of educational leadership. It highlights the pursuit of educational quality and equity in urban school systems as the organizing problem for educational leadership. Students will use research to analyze leadership practices to strengthen urban education.
Education^The Educational System of the United States The Educational System of the United States Historical development and contemporary status of principal features of American schooling and major issues of policy and practice. The course will focus primarily upon public elementary and secondary schools. The course will stress relationships between education and other sectors of society.
Education^Data Analysis in Education Research Data Analysis in Education Research Introduces students to quantitative statistical methods for educational research. Emphasizes parameter estimation and hypothesis testing, in particular of group differences based on means, medians, proportions and correlation coefficients. Section 1 takes a conceptual and heuristic approach and includes a module on distribution free statistics. Section 2 takes an algebraic approach and includes a module on multiple regression. High school algebra is strongly recommended for section 2.
Education^Educational Data Analysis Laboratory Educational Data Analysis Laboratory Exercises and computer programs are presented and discussed.
Education^Video-Analysis Seminar Video-Analysis Seminar This ongoing seminar is for anyone devoting a significant portion of a given semester to analyzing videotaped records as part of their research. Video-based data are now ubiquitous in educational research and this group is designed to help us all become more savvy at analyzing them. Strands of the seminar, each worth 1 unit of credit, are devoted to participating in video-analysis sessions, reading about video-analysis methods, and completing a paper on your own video-analysis project.
Education^Thesis Seminar: Policy, Organization, Measurement, and Evaluation (POME) Thesis Seminar: Policy, Organization, Measurement, and Evaluation (POME) Recommended for M.A. students working on seminar papers or theses, and doctoral students preparing dissertation proposals. Topic varies with instructor.
Education^Thesis Seminar--ELLC Thesis Seminar--ELLC Recommended for students working on seminar papers, qualifying papers, theses, and dissertation proposals in language and literacy studies. # Section 1: Recommended for Ed.D. students and M.A. students working on curriculum projects. # Section 2: Recommended for Ph.D. students and M.A. students working on research studies.
Education^Seminar on Formulation of Educational Research Seminar on Formulation of Educational Research Discussion of criteria for useful educational research. Emphasis is on applying these criteria while developing plans for research on topics of interest to the participants.
Education^Thesis Seminar Thesis Seminar Recommended for M.A. students working on seminar papers or theses, and doctoral students preparing dissertation proposals.
Education^Technology, Curriculum, and Instruction Technology, Curriculum, and Instruction To explore the cognitive consequences of technology in instruction and learning, the promise of technology in education will be examined, and exemplary instructional software will be explored. A model of knowledge acquisition and knowledge change incorporating technological delivery of instruction will be developed.
Education^Integrating Technology into Secondary English Instruction Integrating Technology into Secondary English Instruction This course will cover (a) basic skills in using computer hardware and software, (b) knowledge of the legal and ethical issues surrounding the use of computers in classroom instruction, (c) communicating through a variety of electronic media, (d) designing, adapting, and using lessons to promote information literacy for lifelong learning, (e) optimizing lessons based upon the technological resources available in the classroom or school setting. (f) contributing to planning the use of technological
Education^Group Study for Graduate Students--POME Group Study for Graduate Students--POME Research on special problems and topics not covered by regular courses or seminars. Topics will vary in different semesters.
Education^Group Study for Graduate Students--LLSC Group Study for Graduate Students--LLSC Research on special problems and topics not covered by courses or seminars.
Education^Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research--DCEMST Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research--DCEMST Advanced group study in education. Topics vary from semester to semester. May consist of organized lectures or seminar discussions, related chiefly to the research area in which the group is working.
Education^Group Study and Research Group Study and Research Group study and research on special problems and topics.
Education^Special Study and Research Special Study and Research Special study or research under direction of a faculty member. One unit of credit for every four hours of conference and independent research time per week.
Education^Special Study and Research Special Study and Research Special study or research under direction of a faculty member. One unit of credit for every 8 hours of conference and independent research time per week.
Education^The Teaching of Writing The Teaching of Writing A study of recent research and trends in the teaching of composition in secondary schools. In this class, teacher participants are trained to be Bay Area Writing Project (BAWP) Teacher/Consultants who conduct workshops in schools and districts.
Education^California Literature Project Seminar California Literature Project Seminar This workshop/seminar introduces teachers to literature-based, student-centered literacy instruction. The course is designed to help K-12 teachers apply the California English/Language Arts Framework, the K-8 Model Curriculum Guidelines, and the 9-12 Model Curriculum Standards. Participants will develop a literature-based curriculum plan for their own classrooms.
Education^The Art Of Teaching The Art Of Teaching Consultation and analysis for teaching assistants.
Education^Supervised Teaching for Secondary English Supervised Teaching for Secondary English Twenty-four to twenty-eight hours of supervised teaching in public school classrooms and one hour of lecture per week. Sequence begins with the fall semester.
Education^Supervised Teaching for Secondary English Supervised Teaching for Secondary English Twenty-four to twenty-eight hours of supervised teaching in public school classrooms and one hour of lecture per week. Sequence begins with the fall semester.
Education^Supervised Teaching in Elementary Education Supervised Teaching in Elementary Education Fieldwork for teaching credential. Supervised teaching may begin with the opening of the public schools in the fall and extend through the spring semester.
Education^Supervised Teaching in Mathematics and Science for Secondary Schools Supervised Teaching in Mathematics and Science for Secondary Schools Fieldwork for teaching credential. Supervised teaching may begin with the opening of the public schools in the fall and extend through the spring semester.
Education^Technology, Curriculum, and Instruction Technology, Curriculum, and Instruction Meets level 1 technology for the California Multiple Subject Credential. Introduction to basic computer skills and applications.
Education^Arts in the Elementary Classroom Arts in the Elementary Classroom This course provides an introductory understanding of the role, value, and issues of arts integration. The readings, discussions, and activities are concerned with promoting engagement and critical thinking through creativity, basic concepts related to children's creative production, perceiving and responding to the arts, teacher creative identity, and planning for arts integration instruction.
Education^Preparation for Completion of the Elementary Mathematics Performance Assessment Preparation for Completion of the Elementary Mathematics Performance Assessment This course is designed to support candidates as they prepare for and complete the Elementary Mathematics Performance Assessment for CA teachers (PACT). The PACT is required for all credential candidates prior to recommendation for credentialing as designated by the state of California. Candidates will become familiar with the requirements for the PACT, begin planning their teaching event, view, share, and critique "work in progress," read and respond to relevant articles, review guidelines
Education^Special Study for Educators Special Study for Educators Special study of professional topics under direction of a faculty member. One unit of credit for ever 7 hours of consultation and special study per week.
Education^Special Study for Educators Special Study for Educators Special study of professional topics under direction of a faculty member. One unit of credit for ever 7 hours of consultation and special study per week.
Education^Community-Based Internship in School Psychology Community-Based Internship in School Psychology Supervised assignment to a community mental health agency in the capacity of school psychologist.
Education^Community-Based Internship in School Psychology Community-Based Internship in School Psychology Supervised assignment to a community mental health agency in the capacity of school psychologist.
Education^School-Based Internship in School Psychology School-Based Internship in School Psychology Supervised assignment to a school district in the capacity of school psychologist.
Education^School-Based Internship in School Psychology School-Based Internship in School Psychology Supervised assignment to a school district in capacity of school psychologist.
Education^Practicum in School Site Management I Practicum in School Site Management I Supervised field experience, conferences, and colloquium.
Education^Practicum in School Site Management Practicum in School Site Management Supervised field experience, conferences, and colloquium.
Education^Research Practicum in Administration Research Practicum in Administration During the fall semester, students complete 294A in which the preliminary Leadership Action Research Project is designed - a summative assessment for the Principal Leadership Institute and the MA program at Berkeley. Through the LARP process, students engage in a cycle of inquiry about a problem or concern that matters to their overall leadership agenda and creates more equitable spaces in urban schools. In this course, students solidify the design of their LARP, take leadership action to implement
Education^Residency: Introduction to School Districts Residency: Introduction to School Districts This course is designed to expose students to the role and purpose of school systems. It addresses the school district as service centers for schools as well as leaders of education reform, and explores the relationship between the district and its schools and why and how each serves as a collaborative function to improve and facilitate education excellence.
Education^Residency: Excellence and Equity and Systemic Reform Residency: Excellence and Equity and Systemic Reform Students will meet weekly for one hour with a residency adviser at one of the following campuses: San Francisco State University; California State University, East Bay; or San Jose State University. The residency will require six hours weekly at a school district site to conduct research on curriculum, instruction, assessment, and professional development topics selected by students in conjunction with their faculty counselors and residency advisers in collaboration with the district consultant.
Education^Residency: Decision Making and Resource Management Residency: Decision Making and Resource Management Residencies are a central part of the LEEP curriculum. The goals of the residencies are to give students a first-hand experience of the workings of district or system level administration and encourage them to condduct systematic inquiries in this setting; help them make the transition from school-based actors to district-based actors with an appreciation for systemic and political aspects of that role; anchor theoretical knowledge acquired in campus-based seminars in the practice of management
Education^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for the master's examination in consultation with a faculty adviser. One unit of credit for each four hours of conference and independent research per week.
Religion^Introductory Topics in Religious Studies Introductory Topics in Religious Studies Selected introductory topics in the study of religion.
Religion^Introductory Topics in Religious Studies Introductory Topics in Religious Studies Selected introductory topics in the study of religion.
Religion^Introductory Topics in Religious Studies Introductory Topics in Religious Studies Selected introductory topics in the study of religion.
Religion^Religion of Ancient Egypt Religion of Ancient Egypt A survey of the religious beliefs of the ancient Egyptians, based primarily upon the written sources.
Religion^Babylonian Religion Babylonian Religion A survey of Babylonian religious beliefs and practices based on indigenous texts and monuments.
Religion^Scandinavian Myth and Religion Scandinavian Myth and Religion Religious beliefs and practices during the Viking Age in Scandinavia and their manifestations in later recordings. Readings and discussion in English.
Religion^Celtic Mythology and Oral Tradition Celtic Mythology and Oral Tradition The course will introduce students to the pre-Christian beliefs of the Celtic and Indo-European worlds, to the historical narratives in which such beliefs are embedded, and to the methodology of investigating ancient and medieval belief systems.
Religion^Western Mysticism: Religion, Art, and Literature Western Mysticism: Religion, Art, and Literature The course will focus on examples of mystical thought from the traditions of Christian and Jewish mysticism since the Middle Ages. In addition to the introduction of the students to basic texts and concepts we will discuss the effects of mystical thought on art and literature from the Middle Ages up to today.
Religion^The English Bible As Literature The English Bible As Literature Introduction to the English Bible treated as a literary work.
Religion^The Renaissance and the Reformation The Renaissance and the Reformation European history from the fourteenth to the middle of the seventeenth century. Political, social, and economic developments during this transitional period will be examined, together with the rise of Renaissance culture, and the religious upheavals of the sixteenth century.
Religion^Jewish Civilization I: The Biblical Period Jewish Civilization I: The Biblical Period This is the first course in a four-course sequence in the history of Jewish culture and civilization. It covers the biblical period and the period up to the destruction of the second temple. This course will explore the current state of our knowledge, including the legacy of ancient Near Eastern myth and religion, the history of Israelite religion, the literary features of biblical narrative, and the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Religion^Jewish Civilization: Modern Period Jewish Civilization: Modern Period This is the fourth course in a four-course sequence in the history of Jewish culture and civilization. It explores the major themes in Jewish history from 1750 to the present, with special attention paid to the transformation of Jewish communal and individual identity in the modern world. Topics to be treated include the breakdown of traditional society, enlightenment and emancipation, assimilation, Hasidism, racial anti-Semitism, colonialism, Zionism, and contemporary Jewish life in Europe, North
Religion^Religion in Early India Religion in Early India Designed as a two-semester sequence, these courses are an introduction to the religions that have their origin on the Indian subcontinent--Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, and tribal religions--as well as those that originated in other regions such as Islam, Christianity, Judaism, and Zoroastrianism. Organizing this material chronologically rather than teaching it by separate religious traditions facilitates comparisons and promotes an understanding not only of the differences among these religions
Religion^Religion in South India Religion in South India The development and practice of religion in South India. Emphasis will be on sources translated directly from Indian languages. Subjects covered include: the indigenous religion, the effect of Brahmanical religion, movements, and the practice of Hinduism in modern South India.
Religion^Hindu Mythology Hindu Mythology Literary and religious aspects of Hindu myths. Reading of selected mythological texts in translation.
Religion^India's Great Epics: The Mahabharata and the Ramayana India's Great Epics: The Mahabharata and the Ramayana The course entails substantial selected readings from the great Sanskirt epic poems--the Mahabharata and the Ramayana in translation, selected readings from the corpus of secondary literature on Indian epic studies as well as lectures on salient issues in both. Discussion will focus on a variety of historical and theoretical approaches to the study of the poems and their extraordinary influence on Indian culture. Readings will be supplemented with selected showings of popular cinematic and television
Religion^Gandhi and the Civil Rights Movement in America Gandhi and the Civil Rights Movement in America This course surveys the impact of Gandhi's philosophy of nonviolence and justice in American Civil Rights struggles. Through narratives, images from African American, itinerant Gandhian, and ethnic critics of race practice in American culture, we examine how Gandhian satyagraha shaped emergent civil resistance movements, as also the global appeal to nonviolent democracy. ACES component comprises internship with civil liberties partners that monitor local implementations of human rights treaties.
Religion^Sociology of Religion Sociology of Religion The course will locate the place of religious consciousness in human action and then survey comparatively and historically the role that religion has played in human society. Will include a general theory of the nature of religious experience, religious symbolism, and the basis of religious community.
Religion^Topics in the Study of Religion Topics in the Study of Religion Selected topics or problems in the study of religion.
Religion^Honors Course Honors Course Course may take one or two semesters at the option of the instructor and student with credit to be earned upon completion of a successful thesis. Successful completion of the course will normally, but not necessarily, mean the awarding of honors.
Religion^Honors Course Honors Course Course may take one or two semesters at the option of the instructor and student with credit to be earned upon completion of a successful thesis. Successful completion of the course will normally, but not necessarily, mean the awarding of honors.
Civil Engineering^Engineered Systems and Sustainability Engineered Systems and Sustainability An introduction to key engineered systems (e.g., energy, water supply, buildings, transportation) and their environmental impacts. Basic principles of environmental science needed to understand natural processes as they are influenced by human activities. Overview of concepts and methods of sustainability analysis. Critical evaluation of engineering approaches to address sustainability.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Solid Mechanics Introduction to Solid Mechanics A review of equilibrium for particles and rigid bodies. Application to truss structures. The concepts of deformation, strain, and stress. Equilibrium equations for a continuum. Elements of the theory of linear elasticity. The states of plane stress and plane strain. Solution of elementary elasticity problems (beam bending, torsion of circular bars). Euler buckling in elastic beams.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Solid Mechanics Introduction to Solid Mechanics A review of equilibrium for particles and rigid bodies. Application to truss structures. The concepts of deformation, strain, and stress. Equilibrium equations for a continuum. Elements of the theory of linear elasticity. The states of plane stress and plane strain. Solution of elementary elasticity problems (beam bending, torsion of circular bars). Euler buckling in elastic beams.
Civil Engineering^Structure and Properties of Civil Engineering Materials Structure and Properties of Civil Engineering Materials Introduction to structure and properties of civil engineering materials such as asphalt, cements, concrete, geological materials (e.g. soil and rocks), steel, polymers, and wood. The properties range from elastic, plastic and fracture properties to porosity and thermal and environmental responses. Laboratory tests include evaluation of behavior of these materials under a wide range of conditions.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Geology Engineering Geology Principles of physical and structural geology; the influence of geological factors on engineering works and the environment. Field trip.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Civil and Environmental Engineering Introduction to Civil and Environmental Engineering A course designed to familiarize the entering student with the nature and scope of civil and environmental engineering and its component specialty areas.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Data Analysis Engineering Data Analysis Application of the concepts and methods of probability theory and statistical inference to CEE problems and data; graphical data analysis and sampling; elements of set theory; elements of probability theory; random variables and expectation; simulation; statistical inference. Applications to various CEE problems and real data will be developed by use of MATLAB and existing codes. The course also introduces the student to various domains of uncertainty analysis in CEE.
Civil Engineering^Supervised Group Study and Research Supervised Group Study and Research Supervised group study and research by lower division students.
Civil Engineering^Elementary Fluid Mechanics Elementary Fluid Mechanics Fluid statics and dynamics, including laboratory experiments with technical reports. Fundamentals: integral and differential formulations of the conservation laws are solved in special cases such as boundary layers and pipe flow. Flow visualization and computation techniques are introduced using Matlab. Empirical equations are used for turbulent flows, drag, pumps, and open channels. Principles of empirical equations are also discussed: dimensional analysis, regression, and uncertainty.
Civil Engineering^Fluid Mechanics of Rivers, Streams, and Wetlands Fluid Mechanics of Rivers, Streams, and Wetlands Analysis of steady and unsteady open-channel flow and application to rivers and streams. Examination of mixing and transport in rivers and streams. Effects of channel complexity. Floodplain dynamics and flow routing. Interaction of vegetation and fluid flows. Freshwater and tidal marshes. Sediment transport in rivers, streams, and wetlands. Implications for freshwater ecosystem function.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Hydrology Introduction to Hydrology Course addresses principles and practical aspects of hydrology. Topics in introduction to hydrology include hydrologic cycle, precipitation, evaporation, infiltration, snow and snowmelt, and streamflow; introduction to geomorphology, GIS (Geographic Information Systems) applications, theory of unit hydrograph, frequency analysis, flood routing through reservoirs and rivers; introduction to rainfall-runoff analyses, watershed modeling, urban hydrology, and introduction to groundwater hydrology.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Fluid Mechanics Design Environmental Fluid Mechanics Design Hands-on design course in applied fluid mechanics. Course goes beyond basic examples of fluid flow to include detailed discussion of real-world environmental engineering. Class team projects are used to explore real fluid mechanics, e.g., engineering for air quality or design for sea level rise mitigation. Specific project topics vary by offering and include interdisciplinary design issues from structural, geotechnical, environmental and/or transporation engineering.
Civil Engineering^Air Pollution Air Pollution This course is an introduction to air pollution and the chemistry of earth's atmosphere. We will focus on the fundamental natural processes controlling trace gas and aerosol concentrations in the atmosphere, and how anthropogenic activity has affected those processes at the local, regional, and global scales. Specific topics include stratospheric ozone depletion, increasing concentrations of green house gasses, smog, and changes in the oxidation capacity of the troposphere.
Civil Engineering^Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Mitigation Assessment of technological options for responding to climate change. Overview of climate-change science; sources, sinks, and atmospheric dynamics of greenhouse gases. Current systems for energy supply and use. Renewable energy resources, transport, storage, and transformation technologies. Technological opportunities for improving end-use energy efficiency. Recovery, sequestration, and disposal of greenhouse gases. Societal context for implementing engineered responses.
Civil Engineering^Air Pollutant Emissions and Control Air Pollutant Emissions and Control Analysis of air pollution sources and methods for controlling emissions, with a focus on transportation-related air pollution. Combustion system fundamentals and pollutant formation mechanisms. Control of emissions from spark-ignition and compression-ignition engines.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Engineering Environmental Engineering Quantitative overview of air and water contaminants and their engineering control. Elementary environmental chemistry and transport. Reactor models. Applications of fundamentals to selected current issues in water quality engineering, air quality engineering, air quality engineering, and hazardous waste management.
Civil Engineering^Water and Air Quality Laboratory Water and Air Quality Laboratory This laboratory course is designed to accompany the lecture topics in Civil Engineering 111. Each laboratory activity will provide an opportunity to understand key concepts in water and air quality through hands-on experimentation. Laboratory topics include phase partitioning, acid/base reactions, redox reactions, biochemical oxygen demand, absorption, gas transfer, reactor hydraulics, particle destablization, disinfection, and combustion emissions.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Engineering Design Environmental Engineering Design Engineering design and project management of environmental systems. Students will complete a design project focusing on pollution control in a selected environmental system. Lectures and project activities will address process design, economic optimization, legal and institutional constraints on design, and project management. Additional components of design (e.g., hydraulics, engineering sustainability, plant structures) will be included.
Civil Engineering^Ecological Engineering for Water Quality Improvement Ecological Engineering for Water Quality Improvement Ecological engineering approaches for treating contaminated water using natural processes to improve water quality. Emphasis on combining basic science and engineering approaches to understand the fundamental processes that govern the effectiveness of complex natural treatment systems. Applications include constructed wetlands, waste stabilization ponds, stormwater bioretention, decentralized wastewater management, ecological sanitation. Laboratory sessions will consist of design and monitoring
Civil Engineering^Environmental Microbiology Environmental Microbiology The scope of modern environmental engineering requires a fundamental knowledge of microbial processes with specific application to water, wastewater and the environmental fate of pollutants. This course will cover basic microbial physiology, biochemistry, metabolism, growth energetics and kinetics, ecology, pathogenicity, and genetics for application to both engineered and natural environmental systems.
Civil Engineering^Water Chemistry Water Chemistry The application of principles of inorganic, physical, and dilute solution equilibrium chemistry to aquatic systems, both in the aquatic environment and in water and wastewater treatment processes.
Civil Engineering^Chemistry of Soils Chemistry of Soils Chemical mechanisms of reactions controlling the fate and mobility of nutrients and pollutants in soils. Role of soil minerals and humus in geochemical pathways of nutrient biovailability and pollutant detoxification. Chemical modeling of nutrient and pollutant soil chemistry. Applications to soil acidity and salinity.
Civil Engineering^Structural Engineering Structural Engineering Introduction to design and analysis of structural systems. Loads and load placement. Proportioning of structural members in steel, reinforced concrete, and timber. Structural analysis theory. Hand and computer analysis methods, validation of results from computer analysis. Applications, including bridges, building frames, and long-span cable structures.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Structural Analysis Advanced Structural Analysis Theory and application of structural analysis. Stiffness and flexibility methods, with emphasis on the direct stiffness method. Equilibrium and compatibility. Virtual work. Response of linear and simple nonlinear structures to static loads. Use of computer programs for structural analysis. Modeling of two- and three-dimensional structures. Verification and interpretation of structural response.
Civil Engineering^Structural Steel Design Project Structural Steel Design Project Introduction to one or more comprehensive structural design problems. Design teams will conceive structural system; determine design loads; conduct preliminary and final design of structure and its foundation; prepare construction cost estimate; prepare final report containing project description, design criteria, cost estimate, structural drawings, and supporting calculations; and make "client" presentations as required.
Civil Engineering^Design of Steel Structures Design of Steel Structures Introduction to materials and methods of steel construction; behavior and design of tension members, compression members, flexural members and beam-columns; design of welds, bolts, shear connections and moment connections; design of spread footings or other foundation elements, inroduction to design of earthquake-resistant steel structures including concentrically braced frames and moment frames.
Civil Engineering^Structural Concrete Design Project Structural Concrete Design Project Introduction to one or more comprehensive structural design problems. Design teams will conceive structural system; determine design loads; conduct preliminary and final design of structure and its foundation; prepare construction cost estimate; prepare final report containing project description, design criteria, cost estimate, structural drawings, and supporting calculations; make "client" presentations as required.
Civil Engineering^Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures Introduction to materials and methods of reinforced concrete construction; behavior and design of reinforced concrete beams and one-way slabs considering deflections, flexure, shear, and anchorage; behavior and design of columns; design of spread footings or other foundation elements; design of earthquake-resistant structures; introduction to prestressed concrete.
Civil Engineering^Structural Design in Timber Structural Design in Timber Characteristics and properties of wood as a structural material; design and detailing of structural elements and entire structures of wood. Topics include allowable stresses, design and detailing of solid sawn and glulam beams and columns, nailed and bolted connections, plywood diaphragms and shear walls. Case studies.
Civil Engineering^Mechanics of Structures Mechanics of Structures Elastic and plastic stress and deformation analysis of bars, shafts, beams, and columns; energy and variational methods; plastic analysis of structures; stability analysis of structures; computer-aided mathematical techniques for solution of engineering problems and modular computer programming methods.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Analysis Using the Finite Element Method Engineering Analysis Using the Finite Element Method This is an introductory course on the finite element method and is intended for seniors in engineering and applied science disciplines. The course covers the basic topics of finite element technology, including domain discretization, polynomial interpolation, application of boundary conditions, assembly of global arrays, and solution of the resulting algebraic systems. Finite element formulations for several important field equations are introduced using both direct and integral approaches. Particular
Civil Engineering^Failure Mechanisms in Civil Engineering Materials Failure Mechanisms in Civil Engineering Materials The failure mechanisms in civil engineering materials (cement-based materials, metallic- and polymer-based materials) are associated with processing, microstructure, stress states, and environmental changes. Fracture mechanics of brittle, quasi-brittle, and ductile materials; cracking processes in monolithic, particulate, and fiber reinforced materials; examples of ductile/brittle failure transitions in civil engineering structures; retrofitting of existing structures; non-destructive techniques
Civil Engineering^Transportation Facility Design Transportation Facility Design A capstone class with the objective to design transportation facilities based on operational capacity, site constraints, and environmental design considerations. Emphasis on airports, including landside and airside elements, and environmental assessment and mitigation techniques.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Systems Engineering Transportation Systems Engineering Operation, management, control, design, and evaluation of passenger and freight transportation systems. Their economic role. Demand analysis. Overall logistical structure. Performance models and modeling techniques: time-space diagrams, queuing theory, network analysis, and simulation. Design of control strategies for simple systems. Feedback effects. Paradoxes. Transportation impact modeling; noise; air pollution. Multi-criteria evaluation and decision making. Financing and politics.
Civil Engineering^Infrastructure Planning and Management Infrastructure Planning and Management This course focuses on physical infrastructure systems that support society, including transportation, communications, power, water, and waste. These are complex, large-scale systems that must be planned and managed over a long-term horizon. Economics-based, analytical tools are covered, including topics of supply, demand, and evaluation. Problem sets, case studies, and a class project provide for hands-on experience with a range of infrastructure systems, issues, and methods of analysis.
Civil Engineering^Concrete Materials, Construction, and Sustainabiltiy Concrete Materials, Construction, and Sustainabiltiy Concrete materials: cements, supplementary cementitious materials, water, and admixtures. Sustainability analysis of concrete materials and mixtures. Development of special concretes: self-leveling concrete, high-performance concrete, and mass concrete. Consideration of sustainability of concrete construction methods used for buildings, highways, airfields, bridges, dams and other hydraulic structures. Non-destructive methods. Discussion of long-term durability. Comprehensive group projects.
Civil Engineering^Construction Engineering Construction Engineering Introduction to construction engineering and field operations. The construction industry, construction methods and practice, productivity improvement, equipment selection, site layout formwork, erection of steel and concrete structures. Labs demonstrate the concepts covered. Field trips to local construction projects.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Project Management Engineering Project Management Principles of economics, decision making, and law applied to company and project management. Business ownership, liability and insurance, cash flow analysis, and financial management. Project life-cycle, design-construction interface, contracts, estimating, scheduling, cost control.
Civil Engineering^Visualization and Simulation for Engineering and Management Visualization and Simulation for Engineering and Management A series of course modules on computer methods and tools for engineering and management, emphasizing the systems approach. Each 1 unit module will run for a segment of the semester, and will cover theory and hands-on laboratory exercises. Students may take 1-3 modules per semester. Representation and modeling, visualization, use of different graphic formats, and simulation in engineering and management research and practice. The course is a combination of lectures, readings, hands-on exercises,
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Geological Engineering Introduction to Geological Engineering Geological and geophysical exploration for structures in rock; properties and behavior of rock masses; rock slope stability; geological engineering of underground openings; evaluation of rock foundations, including dams. No final examination.
Civil Engineering^Groundwater and Seepage Groundwater and Seepage Introduction to principles of groundwater flow, including steady and transient flow through porous media, numerical analysis, pumping tests, groundwater geology, contaminant transport, and design of waste containment systems.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Geomatics Engineering Geomatics Engineering Geomatics is a field that integrates collections, processing, and analysis of digital geospatial data. This new field is anchored in the established field of geodetics that describes the complex shape of the Earth, elements and usage of topographic data and maps. Basic and advanced GPS satellite mapping. Digital globe technology. Advanced laser-LIDAR mapping. Quantitative terrain modeling, change detection, and analysis. Hydrogeomatics-seafloor mapping.
Civil Engineering^Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering Soil formation and identification. Engineering properties of soils. Fundamental aspects of soil characterization and response, including soil mineralogy, soil-water movement, effective stress, consolidation, soil strength, and soil compaction. Use of soils and geosynsynthetics in geotechnical and geoenvironmental applications. Introduction to site investigation techniques. Laboratory testing and evaluation of soil composition and properties.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Geotechnics Environmental Geotechnics Principles of environmental geotechnics applied to waste encapsulation and remediation of contaminated sites. Characterization of soils and wastes, engineering properties of soils and geosynthetics and their use in typical applications. Fate and transport of contaminants. Fundamental principles and practices in groundwater remediation. Application of environmental geotechnics in the design and construction of waste containment systems. Discussion of soil remediation and emerging technologies.
Civil Engineering^Foundation Engineering Design Foundation Engineering Design Principles of foundation engineering. Shear strength of soil and theories related to the analysis and design of shallow and deep foundations, and retaining structures. Structural design of foundation elements; piles, pile caps, and retaining structures. The course has a group project that incorporates both geotechnical and structural components of different foundation elements.
Civil Engineering^Applied Geophysics Applied Geophysics The theory and practice of geophysical methods for determining the subsurface distribution of physical rock and soil properties. Measurements of gravity and magnetic fields, electrical and electromagnetic fields, and seismic velocity are interpreted to map the subsurface distribution of density, magnetic susceptibility, electrical conductivity, and mechanical properties.
Civil Engineering^Pavement Engineering Pavement Engineering A first course in pavement engineering for highways and airfields, including failure mechanisms, design approaches, new pavement and rehabilitation design, effects of materials and construction on pavement performance. Emphasis on understanding of fundamental issues of pavement engineering, approaches to evaluation and design for new pavements and maintenance and rehabilitation design, practical lab experience with asphalt concrete materials and tools used for evaluation and design of pavements
Civil Engineering^Life-Cycle Design and Construction Life-Cycle Design and Construction Course encompasses two design aspects of a civil and environmental engineering system: 1) Design of whole system, component, or life-cycle phase, subject to engineering standards and constraints, and 2) production system design (e.g., cost estimation and control, scheduling, commercial and legal terms, site layout design). Students form teams to address real-life projects and prepare project documentation and a final presentation.
Civil Engineering^Design of Cyber-Physical Systems Design of Cyber-Physical Systems Design and prototype of large-scale technology intensive systems. Design project incorporating infrastruture systems and areas such as transportation and hydrology; for example, watershed sensor networks, robot networks for environmental management, mobile Internet monitoring, open societal scale systems, crowd-sources applications, traffic management. Design of sensing and control systems, prototyping systems, and measures of system performance. Modeling, software and hardware implementation.
Civil Engineering^Civil and Environmental Engineering Systems Analysis Civil and Environmental Engineering Systems Analysis This course is organized around five real-world large-scale CEE systems problems. The problems provide the motivation for the study of quantitative tools that are used for planning or managing these systems. The problems include design of a public transportation system for an urban area, resource allocation for the maintenance of a water supply system, development of repair and replacement policies for reinforced concrete bridge decks, traffic signal control for an arterial street, scheduling in
Civil Engineering^The Art and Science of Civil and Environmental Engineering Practice The Art and Science of Civil and Environmental Engineering Practice A series of lectures by distinguished professionals designed to provide an appreciation of the role of science, technology, and the needs of society in conceiving projects, balancing the interplay of conflicting demands, and utilizing a variety of disciplines to produce unified and efficient systems.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Risk Analysis Engineering Risk Analysis Applications of probability theory and statistics in planning, analysis, and design of civil engineering systems. Development of probabilistic models for risk and reliability evaluation. Occurrence models; extreme value distributions. Analysis of uncertainties. Introduction to Bayesian statistical decision theory and its application in engineering decision-making.
Civil Engineering^Honors Undergraduate Research Honors Undergraduate Research Supervised research. Students who have completed 3 or more upper division courses may pursue original research under the direction of one of the members of the staff. A final report or presentation is required. A maximum of 4 units of H194 may be used to fulfill the technical elective requirement.
Civil Engineering^Field Studies in Civil Engineering Field Studies in Civil Engineering Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of civil engineering. Written report required at the end of the semester.
Civil Engineering^Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates Group study of a selected topic or topics in civil engineering.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Fluid Mechanics Environmental Fluid Mechanics Fluid mechanics of the natural water and air environment. Flux equation analyses; unsteady free surface flow; stratified flow; Navier-Stokes equations; boundary layers, jets and plumes; turbulence, Reynolds equations, turbulence modeling; mixing, diffusion, dispersion, and contaminant transport; geophysical flows in atmosphere and ocean; steady and unsteady flow in porous media. Application to environmentally sensitive flows in surface and groundwater and in lower atmosphere.
Civil Engineering^Numerical Methods for Environmental Flow Modeling Numerical Methods for Environmental Flow Modeling Introduction to numerical methods with application to environmental flows (atmospheric, surface water, and subsurface flows). Scalar advection/ diffusion equations used to study finite difference schemes, numerical errors and stability. Methods introduced for solving Navier-Stokes equations and for turbulence modeling with Reynolds-averaging and large-eddy simulation. Basic programming skills required for hands-on exercises.
Civil Engineering^Transport and Mixing in the Environment Transport and Mixing in the Environment Application of fluid mechanics to transport and mixing in the environment. Fundamentals of turbulence, turbulent diffusion, and shear dispersion in steady and oscillatory flows and the effects of stratification. Application to rivers, wetlands, lakes, estuaries, the coastal ocean, and the lower atmosphere.
Civil Engineering^Vadose Zone Hydrology Vadose Zone Hydrology Course addresses fundamental and practical issues in flow and transport phenomena in the vadose zone, which is the geologic media between the land surface and the regional water table. A theoretical framework for modeling these phenomena will be presented, followed by applications in the areas of ecology, drainage and irrigation, and contaminant transport. Hands-on applications using numerical modeling and analysis of real-life problems and field experiments will be emphasized.
Civil Engineering^Graduate Hydrology Graduate Hydrology Hydrology is presented and analyzed in the context of a continuum extending from the atmosphere to the land surface to the subsurface to free water bodies. In this class, we develop the theoretical frameworks required to address problems that both lie within individual components and span these traditionally separate environments. Starting from a development of the fundamental dynamics of fluid motion, we examine applications within the subsurface, the atmosphere and surface water systems.
Civil Engineering^Surface Water Hydrology Surface Water Hydrology Course addresses topics of surface water hydrology, such as processes of water in the atmosphere, over land surface, and within soil; advanced representation and models for infiltration and evapotranspiration processes; partition of water and energy budgets at the land surface; snow and snowmelt processes; applications of remote sensing; flood and drought, and issues related to advanced hydrological modeling. Students will address practical problems and will learn how to use the current operational
Civil Engineering^Margins of Quality for Engineered Systems Margins of Quality for Engineered Systems Processes and procedures to define and determine the demands and capacities of the structures and hardware elements of engineered systems during their life-cycles: margins of quality. The objective of this course is to provide students with the knowledge and skills to define and evaluate system demands, capacities, and reliabiltity targets to be used in design, requalification, construction, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of engineered systems.
Civil Engineering^Design for Sustainable Communities Design for Sustainable Communities This course provides conceptual and hands-on experience in design and implementation of innovative products or processes for improving the sustainability of resource-constrained communities (mostly poor ones in the developing countries). Teams of students will take on practical projects, with guidance from subject experts.
Civil Engineering^Control of Water-Related Pathogens Control of Water-Related Pathogens Comprehensive strategies for the assessment and control of water-related human pathogens (disease-causing microorganisms). Transmission routes and life cycles of common and emerging organisms, conventional and new detection methods (based on molecular techniques), human and animal sources, fate and transport in the environment, treatment and disinfection, appropriate technology, regulatory approaches, water reuse.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Physical-Chemical Processes Environmental Physical-Chemical Processes Fundamental concepts of physical-chemical processes that affect water quality in natural and engineered environmental systems. Focus is on developing a qualitative understanding of mechanisms as well as quantitative tools to describe, predict, and control the behavior of physical-chemical processes. Topics include reactor hydraulics and reaction kinetics, gas transfer, adsorption, particle characteristics, flocculation, gravitational separations, filtration, membranes, and disinfection.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Biological Processes Environmental Biological Processes Fundamental concepts of biological processes that are important in natural and engineered environmental systems, especially those affecting water quality. Incorporates basic fundamentals of microbiology into a quantifiable engineering context to describe, predict, and control behavior of environmental biological systems. Topics include the stoichiometry, energetics and kinetics of microbial reactions, suspended and biofilm processes, carbon and nutrient cycling, and bioremediation applications.
Civil Engineering^Watersheds and Water Quality Watersheds and Water Quality Overview of approaches used by engineers to preserve or improve water quality at the watershed scale. Characterization and modeling of nutrients, metals, and organic contaminants in watersheds. Application of ecosystem modification and pollutant trading to enhance water quality. The course emphasizes recent case studies and interdisciplinary approaches for solving water quality problems.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Chemical Kinetics Environmental Chemical Kinetics Kinetic aspects of chemical fate and transport in aquatic systems. Quantitative descriptions of the kinetics of intermedia transport and pollutant transformation by abiotic, photochemical, and biological reactions. Techniques for the estimation of environmental reaction rates. Development of models of pollutant behavior in complex natural systems.
Civil Engineering^Air Quality Engineering Air Quality Engineering Quantitative overview of the characterization and control of air pollution problems. Summary of fundamental chemical and physical processes governing pollutant behavior. Analysis of key elements of the air pollution system: sources and control techniques, atmospheric transformation, atmospheric transport, modeling, and air quality management.
Civil Engineering^Atmospheric Aerosols Atmospheric Aerosols Nature, behavior and signifance of airborne particulate matter. Size distributions. Transport phenomena and deposition processes. Light scattering, visibility impairment, and climate consequences. Aerosol thermodynamics and kinetics of phase-change processes, including nucleation. Phase partitioning of semivolatile species. Coagulation. Atmospheric sources including primary and secondary particle formation. Loss mechanisms including wet and dry deposition. Technological controls.
Civil Engineering^Air Pollution Modeling Air Pollution Modeling Theory and practice of mathematical air quality modeling. Modeling atmospheric chemical transformation processes. Effects of uncertainty in model parameters on predictions. Review of atmospheric diffusion theory and boundary layer meteorology. Dispersion modeling. Combining chemistry and transport.
Civil Engineering^Structural Analysis Theory and Applications Structural Analysis Theory and Applications Theory and applications of modern structural analysis. Direct stiffness method. Matrix formulations. Virtual work principles. Numerical solution methods. Modeling and practical analysis of large frame structures. Elastoplastic analysis of frames. P-delta effects.
Civil Engineering^Nonlinear Structural Analysis Nonlinear Structural Analysis Theory, modeling, and computation for analysis of structures with material and geometric nonlinearities. Sources of nonlinearity. Solution strategies for static and dynamic loads. Modeling of inelastic materials and members. P-delta and large deformation theory. Analysis of stability. Practical applications.
Civil Engineering^Finite Element Methods Finite Element Methods Approximation theory for analysis of deformation and stress in solids. Finite element formulations for frame, plane stress/strain, axisymmetric, torsion, and three-dimensional elastic problems. The isoparametric formulation and implementation. Plate and shell elements. Finite element modeling of structural systems.
Civil Engineering^Earthquake Protective Systems Earthquake Protective Systems Conceptual basis for earthquake protective systems including seismic isolation and energy absorbing techniques. Design rules for seismic isolation, energy absorbing and self-centering systems. Characteristics of isolation bearings, frictional, metallic and energy absorbing devices, code provision for earthquake protective systems. Applications to new and existing structures.
Civil Engineering^Dynamics of Structures Dynamics of Structures Evaluation of deformations and forces in structures, idealized as single-degree of freedom or discrete-parameter multi-degree of freedom systems, due to dynamic forces. Evaluation of earthquake-induced deformations and forces in structures by linear response history analysis; estimation of maximum response by response spectrum analysis; effects of inelastic behavior. Laboratory demonstrations.
Civil Engineering^Stochastic Structural Dynamics Stochastic Structural Dynamics Introduction to the theory of probability and random processes. Correlation and power spectral density functions. Stochastic dynamic analysis of single- and multi-degree-of-freedom structures subjected to stationary and non-stationary random excitations. Time- and frequency-domain analyses; modal cross-correlations. Response to multi-support excitations. Level crossings, envelope process, first-excursion probability, and distributions of peaks and extremes. Introduction to nonlinear stochastic dynamic
Civil Engineering^Earthquake-Resistant Design Earthquake-Resistant Design Design of structures to resist earthquakes and other dynamic excitations. Characterization of earthquakes for design. Development of design criteria for elastic and inelastic structural response. Seismic performance of various structural systems. Prediction of nonlinear seismic behavior. Basis for code design procedures. Preliminary design of steel and reinforced concrete structures. Evaluation of earthquake vulnerability of existing structures and rehabilitation of seismic deficiencies.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Earthquake Analysis Advanced Earthquake Analysis Advanced topics in time-domain dynamic analysis of structures. Frequency-domain analysis of dynamic response; discrete Fourier transform methods. Earthquake analysis of structures including structural-foundation-soil interaction, and of structures interacting with fluids.
Civil Engineering^Structural System Reliability Structural System Reliability Review of probability theory. Multivariate distribution models. Review of classical methods for characterization of systems and assessment of system reliability. Formulation of structural reliability for components and systems. Exact solutions for special cases. Computational reliability methods, including first- and second-order reliability methods (FORM and SORM), response surface, Monte Carlo simulation, and importance sampling. Bounds on system reliability. Reliability sensitivity and importance
Civil Engineering^Mechanics of Solids Mechanics of Solids Mechanical response of materials: Simple tension in elastic, plastic and viscoelastic members. Continuum mechanics: The stress and strain tensors, equilibrium, compatibility. Three-dimensional elastic, plastic and viscoelastic problems. Thermal, transformation, and dealloying stresses. Applications: Plane problems, stress concentrations at defects, metal forming problems.
Civil Engineering^Structural Mechanics Structural Mechanics The goal of this course is to study the theories of structural mechanics within the framework of nonlinear continuum mechanics of solids. Finite elasticity; invariance. Energy principles: principles of virtual and complementary virtual work; primary and mixed variational principles. Theory of stability: Euler method; stability under follower loads. Classical theories of beams: planar, torsional, and lateral buckling. Plate theories. Invariant theories of structural mechanics: directed continua;
Civil Engineering^Computational Mechanics Computational Mechanics Computational methods for solution of problems in structural mechanics. Finite-element methods for displacement and mixed variational solutions of problems in elasticity and inelasticity. Treatment of constraints arising from near incompressibility in solids, transverse shear effects in beams, plates, and shells, and/or contact between structures. Programming methods for finite-element implementations.
Civil Engineering^Computational Inelasticity Computational Inelasticity Computational methods applied to inelastic deformations of solids; 1, 2, and 3-D large and small-deformation continuum plasticity and viscoelasticity models and their algorithmic approximations; viscoplastic regularizations and softening; thermodynamics and its relationship to algorithmic stability; return mappings, closest-point projections and operator splits; application to metals, soils, concrete, and polymers and incorporation into finite element codes.
Civil Engineering^Statistical Mechanics of Elasticity Statistical Mechanics of Elasticity Introduction to statistical mechanics for engineers interested in the constitutive behavior of matter with a particular interest in continua. Systems of interest will be polymers and crystalline solids. Coverage includes introduction to statistical mechanics, ensembles, phase spaces, partitions functions, free energy, polymer chain statistics, polymer networks, harmonic and quasi-harmonic crystalline solids, limitations of classical methods and quantum mechanical influences.
Civil Engineering^Micromechanics Micromechanics Basic theories, analytical techniques, and mathematical foundations of micromechanics. It includes 1. physical micromechanics, such as mathematical theory of dislocation, and cohesive fracture models; 2. micro-elasticity that includes Eshelby's eigenstrain theory, comparison variational principles, and micro-crack/micro-cavity based damage theory; 3. theoretical composite material that includes the main methodologies in evaluating overall material properties; 4. meso-plasticity that includes meso-damage
Civil Engineering^Computational Nano-mechanics Computational Nano-mechanics Basic mathematics foundations, physical models, computational formulations and algorithms that are used in nanoscale simulations and modelings. They include (1) cohesive finite element methods and discontinuous Galerkin methods; (2) meshfree methods, partition of unity methods, and the eXtended finite element methods (X-FEM); (3) quasicontinuum method; (4) molecular dynamics; (5) multiscale simulations; (6) Boltzmann method.
Civil Engineering^Civil Engineering Materials Civil Engineering Materials Microstructures of concrete, wood, and steel. Differences and similarities in response to loading and environmental effects on these materials, with emphasis on strength, elastic properties, creep, shrinkage, thermal stresses, and failure mechanisms.
Civil Engineering^Concrete Technology Concrete Technology Properties of fresh and hardened concrete; strength, elastic behavior, creep, shrinkage, and durability to chemical and physical attacks. New concrete-making materials. Recent advancements in concrete technology: high-strength, high-workability, and high-performance concrete; fiber-reinforced concrete, and roller-compacted concrete.
Civil Engineering^Reinforced Concrete Structures Reinforced Concrete Structures Analysis and design of reinforced concrete elements and systems that are common in building and bridge structures, with an emphasis on seismic response and design; structural design methods; reinforced concrete materials; confined concrete; line elements under axial, flexural, and shear loadings; bond, anchorage, and development; seismic design principles; earthquake-resistant building frames, walls, diaphragms, and foundations; earthquake-resistant bridges.
Civil Engineering^Behavior of Reinforced Concrete Behavior of Reinforced Concrete Advanced topics in reinforced concrete construction, including inelastic flexural behavior; applications of plastic analysis to reinforced concrete frames; behavior in shear and torsion; yield-line analysis of slabs; behavior under cyclic and reversed loading; seismic rehabilitation.
Civil Engineering^Prestressed Concrete Structures Prestressed Concrete Structures Behavior and design of statically determinate prestressed concrete structures under bending moment, shear, torsion and axial load effects. Design of continous prestressed concrete beams, frames, slabs, and shells. Time-dependent effects and deflections of prestressed concrete structures. Applications to the design and construction of bridges and buildings.
Civil Engineering^Design of Steel and Composite Structures Design of Steel and Composite Structures Behavior and design of steel plate girders and shear walls. Design of bracings for stability. Design of members subjected to torsion. Design of composite beams, columns, and beam-columns. Behavior and design of shear, semi-rigid and moment connections. Concepts used in design of gusset plates and base plates. Selection and design of steel and composite systems.
Civil Engineering^Behavior and Plastic Design of Steel Structures Behavior and Plastic Design of Steel Structures Topics related to inelastic behavior and plastic design of steel members and structures. Behavior of plastic hinge in members subjected to bending moment, axial force, shear, and their combinations. Collapse mechanisms of steel members and structures such as moment frames and braced systems. Inelastic cyclic behavior of steel components. Introduction to fracture and fatigue of steel components.
Civil Engineering^Experimental Methods in Structural Engineering Experimental Methods in Structural Engineering This course covers the following topics: similitude laws, design of structural models, instrumentation and measurement techniques; use of computers to acquire data and control tests; pseudo-dynamic testing method; standard proof-testing for capacity assessment; non-destructive testing for condition assessment, and virtual experimentation. Upon completing this course, the students will be able to use experimental methods to investigate the behavior of a structure and to evaluate its condition.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Policy and Planning Transportation Policy and Planning Policy issues in urban transportation planning; measuring the performance of transportation systems; the transportation policy formulation process; transportation finance, pricing, and subsidy issues; energy and air quality in transportation; specialized transportation for elderly and disabled people; innovations in transportation policy.
Civil Engineering^Operation of Transportation Facilities Operation of Transportation Facilities The management of vehicle flows and fleets. Traffic stream properties and their measurement. Theories of traffic flow. Capacity analysis and queueing. Flow control and fleet scheduling.
Civil Engineering^Systems Analysis in Transportation Systems Analysis in Transportation The systems approach and its application to transportation planning and engineering. Prediction of flows and level of service. Production functions and cost minimization. Utility theory and demand modeling. Transportation network analysis and equilibrium assignment. Decision analysis and evaluation of transportation projects.
Civil Engineering^Intelligent Transportation Systems Intelligent Transportation Systems The use of advanced surveillance, navigation, communication, and computer technology to monitor, analyze, and improve the performance of transportation systems. Enabling technologies. Application to monitoring, analysis, evaluation, and prediction of transportation system performance and behavior. Intervention strategies. Feasibility studies. Human factors and institutional issues. Case studies. In the laboratory, students carry out a term project under the supervision of an ITS researcher.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Economics Transportation Economics Application of micro- and macro-economic concepts to transportation systems. Urban and interregional travel demand analysis. Freight demand. Project and program evaluation. Social welfare theory. Analysis of social cost. Investment analysis and pricing theory. Economic impact analysis. Role of economic analysis in decision making.
Civil Engineering^Highway Traffic Operations Highway Traffic Operations Operational planning and management of the highway transportation system. The highway system is presented as a set of operating environments with each having its unique analytical framework. Major topics to be covered include policy and institutional issues, selection of strategies and tactics, evaluation of objectives and measures of effectiveness.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Sustainability Transportation Sustainability This multi-disciplinary course is intended to introduce students to the fundamentals of sustainable transportation, with an emphasis on: 1) current trends, climate and energy science, and the policy context; 2) methodological and analysis techniques; 3) vehicle technology, fuels, and intelligent transportation systems (ITS) solutions (supply side); and 4) land use, public transportation, and demand management.
Civil Engineering^Logistics Logistics Vehicle routing. Transportation-inventory-production interrelationships, physical distribution networks, many-to-many networks (airlines, postal, etc.), the role of transshipments and terminals in logistic systems for the transportation of goods and passengers, public and private transportation system design. Relevant methodologies.
Civil Engineering^Supply Chain and Logistics Management Supply Chain and Logistics Management Supply chain analysis is the study of quantitative models that characterize various economic trade-offs in the supply chain. The field has made significant strides on both theoretical and practical fronts. On the theoretical front, supply chain analysis inspires new research ventures that blend operations research, game theory, and microeconomics. These ventures result in an unprecedented amalgamation of prescriptive, descriptive, and predictive models characteristic of each subfield. On the practical
Civil Engineering^Public Transportation Systems Public Transportation Systems Analysis of mass transit systems, their operation, and management. Technology of transit vehicles and structures. Public policy and financing.
Civil Engineering^Air Transportation Air Transportation Nature of civil aviation; structure of the airline industry; aircraft characteristics and performance; aircraft noise; navigation and air traffic control; airport planning and design; airline operations; aviation system planning.
Civil Engineering^Infrastructure Systems Management Infrastructure Systems Management Integrated treatment of quantitative and analytical methods for the management of infrastructure facilities over their life. The focus of the course is on statistical modeling and numerical optimization methods and their application to managing systems of civil infrastructure, with an emphasis on transportation facilities.
Civil Engineering^Analysis of Transportation Data Analysis of Transportation Data Probabilistic models in transportation. The use of field data. Data gathering techniques, sources of errors, considerations of sample size. Experiment design for demand forecasting and transportation operations analysis. Analysis techniques.
Civil Engineering^Operations of Transportation Terminals Operations of Transportation Terminals Characteristics of terminals on a mode by mode basis (sea ports, railyards, airports, parking lots, etc.). Methodologies used to study terminal operations and the management of congestion. (Chronographs, input-output diagrams, pricing, simulation). Studies illustrating the use of the methodologies for different modes.
Civil Engineering^Scalable Spatial Analytics Scalable Spatial Analytics Introduction to modern methods of data analysis, spatial data handling and visualization technologies for engineers and data scientists. Theoretical coverage includes a selection of methods from spatial statistics, exploratory data analysis, spatial data mining, discriminative and generative approaches of machine learning. Projects and assignment tasks are targeted at real-world scalable implementation of systems and services based on data analytics in environmental remote sensing, transportation
Civil Engineering^Behavioral Modeling for Engineering, Planning, and Policy Analysis Behavioral Modeling for Engineering, Planning, and Policy Analysis Many aspects of engineering, planning, and policy involve a human element, be it consumers, businesses, governments, or other organizations. Effective design and management requires understanding this human response. This course focuses on behavioral theories and the use of quantitative methods to analyze human response. A mix of theory and practical tools are covered, with applications drawn from infrastructure investment and use, urban growth and design, health, and sustainability.
Civil Engineering^Traffic Safety and Injury Control Traffic Safety and Injury Control This course applies principles of engineering, behavioral science, and vision science to preventing traffic collisions and subsequent injury. A systematic approach to traffic safety will be presented in the course, and will include (1) human behavior, vehicle design, and roadway design as interacting approaches to preventing traffic crashes and (2) vehicle and roadway designs as approaches to preventing injury once a collision has occured. Implications of intelligent transportation system concepts
Civil Engineering^Lean Construction Concepts and Methods Lean Construction Concepts and Methods Inspired by the "lean" resolution in manufacturing, production management concepts and methods are woven into a lean project delivery system. Key concepts include flow, value, variability, and waste. Key methods include proecution system design, target costing, value stream mapping, and work flow control. Student teams apply concepts and methods in field studies of real project management processes and construction operations. The course includes a tour of the NUMMI Auto Plant in Fremont.
Civil Engineering^Lean Construction and Supply Chain Management Lean Construction and Supply Chain Management Principles and practices of "lean" production are applied to project delivery in the AEC industry. Case studies illustrate the concepts. Project delivery is viewed holistically with a focus on work structuring and supply chain management. Topics include systems dynamics, uncertainty, and variation; materials management; logistics; e-commerce; building information modeling (BIM); and integrated product and process design. Students use process simulation to assess performance of different
Civil Engineering^Law for Engineers Law for Engineers Engineering involves many parties with diverse interests. Legal principles form the framework for their interaction. Contracts for engineering services establish both risk allocation and reciprocal liabilities. Issues of contract formation, performance, breach, and remedy are covered in detail. Standard of care and professional negligence are emphasized during the discussion of tort law. Other topics include regulation, legal relationships, litigation, and alternative dispute resolution.
Civil Engineering^Civil Systems and the Environment Civil Systems and the Environment Methods and tools for economic and environmental analysis of civil engineering systems. Focus on construction, transportation, and operation, and maintenance of the built infrastructure. Life-cycle planning, design, costing, financing, and environmental assessment. Industrial ecology, design for environment, pollution prevention, external costs. Models and software tools for life-cycle economic and environmental inventory, impact, and improvement analysis of civil engineering systems.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Project Planning and Control Advanced Project Planning and Control Cost and time estimating and controlling techniques for projects. Evaluation of labor, material, equipment, and subcontract resources, scheduling techniques, earned value concepts. Measuring project percent complete. Contractual risk allocation. Project investment analysis techniques.
Civil Engineering^Business Fundamentals for Engineers Business Fundamentals for Engineers This course will provide a broad survey of management practices critical to starting and managing a business in the engineering and construction industries. Topics that are covered include the entrepreneurial process; organizing and staffing; establishing and applying production control systems; means of protecting products and services from competitive threat; and financial management.
Civil Engineering^Human and Organizational Factors: Quality and Reliability of Engineered Systems Human and Organizational Factors: Quality and Reliability of Engineered Systems This course addresses human and organizational factors in development of desirable quality and reliabiltiy in engineered systems during their life-cyles (concept development through decommissioning). Applications tested and verified proactive, reactive, and interactive approaches are developed and illustrated.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Geomechanics Advanced Geomechanics Advanced treatment of topics in soil mechanics, including state of stress, consolidation and settlement analysis, shear strength of cohesionless and cohesive soils, and slope stability analysis.
Civil Engineering^Sensors and Signal Interpretation Sensors and Signal Interpretation An introduction to the fundamentals of sensor usage and signal processing, and their application to civil systems. In particular, the course focuses on how basic classes of sensors work, and how to go about choosing the best of the new MEMS-based devices for an application. The interpretation of the data focuses on analysis of transient signals, an area typically ignored in traditional signal processing courses. Goals include development of a critical understanding of the assumptions used in common
Civil Engineering^Numerical Modelling in Geomechanics Numerical Modelling in Geomechanics Constitutive laws for geotechnical materials including inelastic hyperbolic and elasto-plastic Cam-clay; soil behavior and critical-state soil mechanics; application of the finite element method to static analysis of earth structures; the Discontinuous Deformation Analysis method.
Civil Engineering^Advanced GeoEngineering Testing and Design Advanced GeoEngineering Testing and Design Field and laboratory testing of soils to support analysis and design of earth structures. In situ field testing, including SPT, CPT, and vane shear, undisturbed sampling of soil, and laboratory testing of soil, including advanced equipment, instrumentation, data acquisition, and measurement techniques. Consolidation and static and cyclic triaxial and simple shear testing under stress- and strain-control with pore pressure measurements. Preparation of an engineering report.
Civil Engineering^Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering Seismicity, influence of soil conditions on site response, seismic site response analysis, evaluation and modelling of dynamic soil properties, analysis of seismic soil-structure interaction, evaluation and mitigation of soil liquefaction and its consequences, seismic code provisions and practice, seismic earth pressures, seismic slope stability and deformation analysis, seismic safety of dams and embankments, seismic performance of pile foundations, and additional current topics.
Civil Engineering^Seismic Hazard Analysis and Design Ground Motions Seismic Hazard Analysis and Design Ground Motions Deterministic and probabilistic approaches for seismic hazard analysis. Separation of uncertainty into aleatory variability and epistemic uncertainty. Discussion of seismic source and ground motion characterization and hazard computation. Development of time histories for dynamic analyses of structures and seismic risk computation, including selection of ground motion parameters for estimating structural response, development of fragility curves, and methods for risk calculations.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Foundation Engineering Advanced Foundation Engineering Advanced treatment of topics in foundation engineering, including earth pressure theories, design of earth retaining structures, bearing capacity, ground improvement for foundation support, analysis and design of shallow and deep foundations.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Geology Engineering Geology Influence of geologic origin and history on the engineering characteristics of soils and rocks. Application of geology in exploration, design, and construction of engineering works.
Civil Engineering^Seismic Methods in Applied Geophysics Seismic Methods in Applied Geophysics This course gives an overview of seismic methods used to image the subsurface. Acquisition, processing, and interpretation of seismic data are discussed, with application to petroleum production, environmental site characterization, earthquake engineering, and groundwater.
Civil Engineering^Digital Data Processing Digital Data Processing Considerations for digital signal processing and data analysis. Fourier Transforms, convolution and correlation. Discrete linear systems, Z tranforms. Digital processing of seismic reflection data, deconvolution and migration. Introduction to 3-D seismic data.
Civil Engineering^Embedded System Design: Modeling, Analysis, and Synthesis Embedded System Design: Modeling, Analysis, and Synthesis Principles of embedded system design. Focus on design methodologies and foundations. Platform-based design and communication-based design and their relationship with design time, re-use, and performance. Models of computation and their use in design capture, manipulation, verification, and synthesis. Mapping into architecture and systems platforms. Performance estimation. Scheduling and real-time requirements. Synchronous languages and time-triggered protocols to simplify the design process.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering Advanced Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering This course covers current topics of interest in civil and environmental engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester depending upon instructor.
Civil Engineering^Transportation and Land Use Planning Transportation and Land Use Planning Examination of the interactions between transportation and land use systems; historical perspectives on transportation; characteristics of travel and demand estimation; evaluation of system performance; location theory; models of transportation and urban structure; empirical evidence of transportation-land use impacts; case study examinations.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Seismology Advanced Topics in Seismology Active areas of research in applied seismology. Subjects include: anisotropic and viscoelastic wave propagation, borehole seismology, crosswell seismology, including crosswell seismic tomography, vertical seismic profiling, reservoir monitoring including passive seismic methods.
Civil Engineering^Civil Systems: Control and Information Management Civil Systems: Control and Information Management Mathematical methods and information technologies for controlling CEE systems. Emphasizes designing component organizations that interact with the world in real-time to control a large system. Methods applied to transportation operations, supply chains, and structures. Management of design complexity by hierarchical specification, systematic use of simulation and verification tools, semantics, polymorphism,information management services, and compilation from high-level design languages.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Geotechnical Engineering Advanced Topics in Geotechnical Engineering Advanced treatment of developing areas of geomechanics and geotechnical earthquake engineering, including the development of generalized nonlinear soil constitutive models, new developments in soil dynamics and geotechnical earthquake engineering, soil improvement, geosynthetics and earth structures, and case studies of geotechnical problems.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Transportation Theory Advanced Topics in Transportation Theory Selected topics in the mathematical analysis of transportation systems. Topics will vary from year to year.
Civil Engineering^Control and Optimization of Distributed Parameters Systems Control and Optimization of Distributed Parameters Systems Distributed systems and PDE models of physical phenomena (propagation of waves, network traffic, water distribution, fluid mechanics, electromagnetism, blood vessels, beams, road pavement, structures, etc.). Fundamental solution methods for PDEs: separation of variables, self-similar solutions, characteristics, numerical methods, spectral methods. Stability analysis. Adjoint-based optimization. Lyapunov stabilization. Differential flatness. Viability control. Hamilton-Jacobi-based control.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Estimation, Control, and Optimization of Partial Differential Equations Advanced Estimation, Control, and Optimization of Partial Differential Equations This course will cover advanced methods in estimation, control, and optimization of distributed parameter systems (partial differential equations in particular). The course builds on 291 and covers discrete methods relying on finite differencing such as quadratic programming for optimal control and variational data assimilation, (ensemble, extended) Kalman filtering. The course covers distributed transfer function analysis and frequency responses of PDEs, and characteristics-based stability analysis.
Civil Engineering^Technologies for Sustainable Societies Technologies for Sustainable Societies Exploration of selected important technologies that serve major societal needs, such as shelter, water, food, energy, and transportation, and waste management. How specific technologies or technological systems do or do not contribute to a move toward sustainability. Specific topics vary from year to year according to student and faculty interests.
Civil Engineering^Energy Systems and Control Energy Systems and Control Introduction to energy system management and the underlying control system tools. Applications of interest include batteries, electric vehicles, renewable energy, power systems, and smart buildings/homes. Technical tools include system modeling, state-space representations, stability, parameter identification, state observers, feedback control, and optimization
Civil Engineering^Field Studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering Field Studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of civil and environmental engineering. Written report required at the end of the semester. Course does not satisfy unit or residence requirements for a master's or doctoral degree.
Civil Engineering^Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Advanced studies in various subjects through special seminars on annually selected topics, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems, or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.
Civil Engineering^Individual Research Individual Research Research or investigation in selected advanced subjects.
Civil Engineering^Workshop for Future Civil and Environmental Engineering Teachers Workshop for Future Civil and Environmental Engineering Teachers The course will include supervised teaching of laboratory sections of civil engineering courses, group analysis of videotapes, reciprocal classroom visitations, and an individual project.
Civil Engineering^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for the comprehensive or language requirements in consultation with the major field adviser. Units may not be used to meet either unit or residence requirements.
Art History^Reading and Writing about Visual Experience Reading and Writing about Visual Experience How do mechanisms of perception structure responses to visual art? What is at stake when words describe images? By means of intensive looking, thinking, speaking, and writing, this course introduces the student to a series of problems and issues in the description and analysis of works of art. Because the course is also an introduction to the historical study of art, it is intended for students with no previous course work in the field. Satisfies the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
Art History^Introduction to Western Art: Ancient to Medieval Introduction to Western Art: Ancient to Medieval An introduction to the art of Egypt, Greece, Rome, and the European Middle Ages. Works of painting, sculpture, and architecture are presented chronologically and interpreted within their particular historical circumstances. The course focuses on themes such as the social and ideological functions of art, strategies of realism and abstraction, rhetorics of the material and immaterial, patronage and the construction of viewing, etc. It enables students to acquire the perceptual and critical skills
Art History^History of Western Art: Renaissance to Modern History of Western Art: Renaissance to Modern An historical survey of selected works of painting, sculpture, and architecture from the Renaissance to the present. Stress is placed on the acquistion of perceptual and critical skills, the analysis and interpretation of style and meaning, and the ability to relate works to a broader visual tradition and historical context.
Art History^Introduction to Western Art: Ancient to Medieval Introduction to Western Art: Ancient to Medieval An introduction to the art of ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, and the European Middle Ages. Painting, sculpture, and architecture are presented chronologically and considered in relation to their historical and cultural circumstances. The course aims to provide students with a basic knowledge of how artworks balance past tradition with innovation; how people actually looked at artworks and what they valued in them; how works of art were commissioned and displayed; how artists went about their work;
Art History^Introduction to Western Art: Renaissance to the Present Introduction to Western Art: Renaissance to the Present An introduction to the historical circumstances and visual character of Western art from the Renaissance to the present. Not a chronological survey, but an exploration of topics and themes central to this period. For example: What tasks did painting and sculpture perform in the past? For whom, at whose expense? How do the rise of landscape painting, the cult of the artist, and the new emphasis on the nude relate to the emergence of modern society? Do stylistic labels like Classicism, Realism, Impressionism
Art History^History of Western Art: Renaissance to Modern History of Western Art: Renaissance to Modern A historical survey of selected works of painting, sculpture, and architecture from the Renaissance to the present. Stress is placed on the acquisition of perceptual and critical skills, the analysis and interpretation of style and meaning, and the ability to relate works to a broader visual tradition and historical context.
Art History^Art of India Art of India This course surveys the arts of India from 2000 BC to the present, including painting, sculpture, and architecture. It treats prehistoric material (Indus Valley), Buddhist sculpture and painting, Hindu temples and their images, miniature painting, and modern art. Art will be considered in relation to its religious, political, and social contexts. The course will normally focus on major monuments, seen from multiple viewpoints, or upon problems and issues that relate the art of this area to traditions
Art History^Arts of East Asia Arts of East Asia This course surveys the artistic traditions of China, Korea, and Japan over six millennia. Through lectures and readings, students are introduced to themes central to the development of art in East Asia. We begin with the form, meaning, and function of archaeological remains, then turn to consider the role of art in Buddhist ritual and worship. Lectures on secular painting will focus on the complex interactions of text and image, and on alternative modes of visualizing exeamplary conduct. Theoretical
Art History^The Arts of Korea The Arts of Korea This course will introduce the arts and culture of Korea from the prehistoric period through the early twentieth century. Significant examples of painting, ceramics, sculpture, metalwork, and photography will be closely examined in their political, social, and cultural contexts. Korean art will also be presented in its East Asian context and compared to Chinese and Japanese art. No prior knowledge of Korean art or history, or Chinese or Korean languages, is expected.
Art History^Buddhist Art of Asia Buddhist Art of Asia A survey of Buddhist art and architecture of Asia from 566 B.C.E. to the 19th century, including India, China, Japan, Tibet, Sri Lanka, and Southeast Asia. How works of art and architecture reflect or engage with the doctrine and practice of different schools of Buddhism. Topics include the making of "the Buddha image," the relationship between patronage, styles, and the ritual use of arts, the notion of sacred space, and the political usage of Buddha images. Discussion of issues such
Art History^Arts of China Arts of China An introduction to the arts of China, designed for newcomers to the history of art or to the study of Chinese culture. Lectures will survey six millennia of Chinese art thematically and chronologically, including the burial arts of the Neolithic period through the Tang dynasty (4th M. BCE-10th C. CE), Buddhist and Daoist ritual arts, and painting and calligraphy. Lectures, readings, and discussions will introduce students to various systems of Chinese thought, modes of visual analysis, and art historical
Art History^Art and Architecture in Japan Art and Architecture in Japan This course is an introduction to art and architecture in Japan. It is intended for newcomers to the history of art and/or to the study of Japanese history and culture. Lectures will proceed chronologically, beginning with the archaeological objects and tumuli of neolithic Japan and ending with the popular graphic arts of the seventeenth to nineteenth centuries and modern transformations of art.
Art History^Introduction to Greek and Roman Art Introduction to Greek and Roman Art An introduction to the major works, themes, and agendas of Greek and Roman art and architecture. Participants will learn to acquire the perceptual and critical skills necessary for understanding these works; to analyze and interpret them; and to relate them to broader visual traditions, historical contexts, and social/cultural issues. Wherever possible, newly discovered work will be illustrated and discussed.
Art History^Introduction to Medieval Art Introduction to Medieval Art A selective, thematic exploration of the visual arts from the decline of the Roman empire to the beginnings of Early Modern period. The emergence of new artistic media, subject matter, and strategies of making and viewing will be discussedagainst the ever-shifting historical circumstances of medieval Europe. Emphasis will be placed on the methods of interpreting the works, especially in relation to then-current social practices and cultural values.
Art History^Introduction to Italian Renaissance Art Introduction to Italian Renaissance Art Using a few selected examples drawn from Florence, Rome, Milan, and Venice, this course will introduce most types of art and architecture produced in the Italian Renaissance--including city squares, churches, palaces and libraries, and their painted and sculptural decoration. Special attention will be paid to various approaches used in interpreting works of art.
Art History^Arts of the Renaissance and Reformation Arts of the Renaissance and Reformation The West's "modern" era had its beginnings in the 15th and 16th centuries. Social and economic organization, religious and political thought, were reconfigured into forms we recognize today. Within these configurations, art took on new roles: a commodity in a nascent capitalist society, a vehicle of propaganda by church and state, an expression of an individual's genius. In aesthetic terms, it took on properties which defined the modern. Italy and the Netherlands each contributed to the
Art History^Introduction to Modern Art Introduction to Modern Art An introduction to the major movements, themes, and artists of modern art, starting with its origins in the nineteenth century. Close attention will be paid to exhibition histories, the development of new forms of media, and shifts in visual culture within the context of the rise of modernity and modernization. No previous knowledge of the subject is presumed; students will be exposed to various modes of art historical interpretation and formal analysis.
Art History^Arts of Latin America Arts of Latin America An introduction to the arts and visual culture of Latin America from the earliest monumental art traditions of prehistory to the present. The course is not a comprehensive survey of all traditions of art in Latin America, but rather a sampling of critical moments that is designed to serve as an introduction to this field of study. We will take a long view of enduring traditions as well as periods of rupture and crisis. Lecture and discussion will frequently center on the active roles of the arts
Art History^Directed Group Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Directed Group Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Instruction for a small group of students on a topic initiated by those students.
Art History^Theories and Methods of Art History Theories and Methods of Art History How art has been studied in the past and how it is currently studied, its historiography and methodology. Consideration of the earliest writers (Pliny, Vasari) but also modern approaches, from traditional style analysis and connoisseurship through the "founders" of modern art history (Panofsky, Riegl) to more recent approaches, e.g. psychoanalysis, feminism, social history, anthropology, semiotics, etc.
Art History^Theories and Methods of Art History Theories and Methods of Art History How art has been studied in the past and how it is currently studied, its historiography and methodology. Consideration of the earliest writers (Pliny, Vasari) but also modern approaches, from traditional style analysis and connoisseurship through the "founders" of modern art history (Panofsky, Riegl) to more recent approaches, e.g., psychoanalysis, feminism, social history, anthropology, semiotics, etc.
Art History^Theories & Methods for a Global History of Art Theories & Methods for a Global History of Art The purpose of this lecture course is to provide students with a toolbox for writing art history in many periods in a global field. We will proceed systematically, learning how to describe and analyze objects, do bibliographic research, use different methodological approaches, and learn to apply them with specific objects/works selected by the student.
Art History^Gender and Representation Gender and Representation A consideration of historical and theoretical issues posed for visual media by attention to issues of gender. Previous course work in art history recommended. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Images and the Law Images and the Law This course explores issues at the intersection of the law and the visual arts. What is the relationship between the law and the visual arts? Does the law constrain the creation of art, or does it establish conditions under which artists can exercise their creativity more freely? When and how should the legal system be employed to promote or curtail the creation, display, or preservation of works of art?
Art History^Cities and the Arts Cities and the Arts The study of various urban centers at particular times in relation to the art produced there. Emphasis may be placed on the rise of artistic centers and professional communities, the representation of places of power, learning or recreation, the construction of urbanity, the reaction to cities, etc. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings available in room 416 Doe Library.
Art History^The "Origins" of Art The "Origins" of Art For millions of years, hominid creatures quite like us made nothing like what we now take to be images or ornaments-"art." Why not? Between 32,000 and 26,000 BC, images and ornaments appear and proliferate. Why? When a workman shovels dirt, the pile is mere garbage. An artist exhibits an identical pile in a gallery as "art." What makes the difference? Detailed examination of paleolithic & prehistoric arts, children's drawings, & some contemporary practices.
Art History^The Art of Ancient Mesopotamia: 3500-1000 BCE The Art of Ancient Mesopotamia: 3500-1000 BCE The art and architecture of early Mesopotamia will be explored in terms of the social, political, and cultural context of ancient Sumer, Babylonia, and Assyria during the period of urbanization and early kingdoms. The course provides an integrated picture of the arts of Mesopotamia and neighboring regions from 3500-1000 BCE with an emphasis on the development of visual narrative, the use of art in the expression of authority and legitimacy, and artistic interconnections between cultures. Collections
Art History^The Art of Ancient Mesopotamia: 1000-330 BCE The Art of Ancient Mesopotamia: 1000-330 BCE The royal art and architecture of later Mesopotamia will be explored in terms of the social, political, and cultural context of the great empires of Assyria, Babylon, and Persia. The course provides an integrated picture of the arts of Mesopotamia and neighboring regions from 1000-330 BCE with an emphasis on the development of visual narrative, the use of art in the expression of authority and legitimacy, and artistic interconnections between cultures. Collections on campus or in the area will be
Art History^Topics in Islamic Art Topics in Islamic Art The course will treat in depth topics in Islamic architecture and topics in Islamic art. Subjects addressed may include painting, calligraphy, and book production.
Art History^The Arts of Africa The Arts of Africa A survey of the arts of black sub-Saharan Africa, including aspects of the Caribbean. Emphasizes major aesthetic/cultural complexes such as the Yoruba, the Manding, and the Kongo. The tension between "traditional arts" and contemporary studio practices, as well as all artistic traditions will be discussed within their social context. Aspects of mythology, history, social values, music, and dance as they relate to artistic traditions included. Films which emphasize this interaction to be
Art History^Early Chinese Art, Part I Early Chinese Art, Part I Chinese art of the Neolithic and Bronze Age. From the earliest period to the end of the Han dynasty (early third century A.D.), especially ceramics, bronzes, jade, and lacquer.
Art History^Sacred Arts in China Sacred Arts in China The history of the visual arts as used in Chinese religious practice, from the third century C.E. through the late imperial period. The course explores different modes of giving visible form to the sacred, expecially in the Daoist and Buddhist traditions, and tracks the movement of objects and visual concepts across Asia and between Daoists and Buddhists, monasteries, the imperial court, and elite and popular lay groups.
Art History^The Classical Painting Tradition in China The Classical Painting Tradition in China The history of the art of painting in China from the third century C.E. through the late imperial period. The course takes a chronological and thematic approach to the classical tradition of Chinese painting and other arts of the brush expressed in a variety of elite and popular genres, considering them in the context of aesthetic and narrative theory, biography, economic history, social life, and politics.
Art History^Art and Propaganda in Modern China Art and Propaganda in Modern China The history of Chinese art from the end of the Qing dynasty in 1912 to the present, including the reformist movements of the early 20th century; the new urbanism and its visual articulation in advertising, photography, and popular arts; national style; politicized painting and woodblock prints in the Western style; Communist socialist realism; and the meaning of the avant-garde as both Communist ideological movement and anti-authoritarian concept.
Art History^Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Temple Art &amp; Architecture in Japan Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Temple Art &amp; Architecture in Japan Primarily the architecture and sculpture of Japanese Buddhist temples, 7th to 13th centuries.
Art History^Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Icons in Japan Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Icons in Japan This course introduces the study of Buddhist icons in Japan, principally paintings and sculpture but also texts, within broader Buddhist ritual and visual cultures from ca. 500 CE to the early 20th century.
Art History^Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Art in the Modern/Contemporary World Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Art in the Modern/Contemporary World This course explores representations of the Buddha and other Buddhist detities in the modern and contemporary world, including pre-modern works of painting and sculpture, images made by contemporary artists, and images within popular culture.
Art History^South Asian Art: Ancient South Asian Art: Ancient Beginning with the earliest remains of cities, towns, and palaces in the Indus Valley region in present day India and Pakistan, this course traces the production of art and architecture in South Asia from 2500 BCE to 1200 CE. Focusing on the painting, sculpture, and architectural traditions of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism, we will examine the aesthetic conventions, theological ideals, and political formations that emerged in early South Asia.
Art History^The Art of India: 500-1350 A.D The Art of India: 500-1350 A.D A survey of Hindu sculpture and architecture in India from the sixth to fourteenth centuries.
Art History^The Art of India: 1350 A.D. to the Present The Art of India: 1350 A.D. to the Present A selective survey of major developments in Muslim and Rajput painting from 1350 to the present.
Art History^The Art of Southeast Asia The Art of Southeast Asia The art of Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, Burma, and Indonesia focusing on the period from 400 to 1500 A.D. Sculpture and architecture will be considered as a balance of Indian and indigenous elements.
Art History^Minoan and Mycenaean Art Minoan and Mycenaean Art This course analyzes the art, architecture, and archaeology of prehistoric Greece, concentrating on the Minoan and Mycenaean palatial arts of the Bronze Age (3000-1200 BCE). The evocative yet still enigmatic remains of palaces and funerary complexes, frescoes and vase paintings, and precious worked pieces will be closely examined in terms of their forms and cultural contexts. The place of prehistoric Greece in the international world of the eastern Mediterranean will also be explored.
Art History^The Art of Ancient Greece: Archaic Greek Art and Architecture (750-480 B.C.) The Art of Ancient Greece: Archaic Greek Art and Architecture (750-480 B.C.) The early development of the major genres of Greek art in the era of the emerging city-states.
Art History^The Art of Ancient Greece: Classical Greek Art and Architecture (500-320 B.C.) The Art of Ancient Greece: Classical Greek Art and Architecture (500-320 B.C.) The maturity of the major genres of Greek art in Periclean Athens and the other leading centers.
Art History^The Art of Ancient Greece: Hellenistic Art and Architecture (330-30 B.C.) The Art of Ancient Greece: Hellenistic Art and Architecture (330-30 B.C.) A survey of the major genres of Greek art in the Hellenic world from Italy to India.
Art History^Introduction to Archaeology: The Tel Dor Excavation Introduction to Archaeology: The Tel Dor Excavation A training school for those with no previous experience in archaeology or ancient art. Volunteers are taught the elements of modern field archaeology, with discussion sessions on site stratigraphy, pottery, and other artifacts. Evening lectures on Israeli, Greaco-Roman, and Near Eastern archaelogy.
Art History^Roman Art Roman Art The art of Rome and of the Roman Empire, from its sources in the Republican era to the Age of Constantine the Great.
Art History^Roman Painting Roman Painting This course presents the surviving evidence for a wide range of pictorial representation in the Roman world, and addresses the many functions of painting in Roman life.
Art History^Art in Late Antiquity Art in Late Antiquity Imperial art from Gallienus through the collapse of the western empire. Christian art from the beginning around 200 through the age of Justinian. Revivals in the seventh and eighth centuries. A look back from the court of Charlemagne and contemporary Constantinople.
Art History^Relics, Reliquaries and Cult Images Relics, Reliquaries and Cult Images A survey of the visual arts in Europe from about 800-1400 A.D. This lecture course explores the origins and transformations of Christian pre-modern visual culture. This class will analyze the revival of monumental sculpture in the context of liturgy, architecture, materiality of the minor arts and reliquaries, as well as medieval theories on perception. Emphasis is placed upon the broad artistic influence of the monastic, pilgrimage, and crusading movements.The elaboration of new iconographic themes
Art History^Gothic Art in Northern Europe: 1150-1270 Gothic Art in Northern Europe: 1150-1270 Gothic art and architecture from its origins in France about 1130. Emphasis on the related developments of architecture, sculpture, and stained glass at the major cathedrals, the impact of the early universities and scientific study, and the political role of the visual arts in the early nation states.
Art History^Art and Science Art and Science This course explores the intersections of art and science in medieval, modern, and contemporary history. It focuses on the ways in which artistic and scientific practices have shaped and legitimated each other through the ages. The course takes the form of an overview that spans from the awakening of European culture through the reception of new knowledge from the Near East to the most recent encounters between art and technoscience in the 21st century.
Art History^Art and Science Art and Science In this course we explore the intersections of art and science in medieval, modern, and contemporary history. Our aim is twofold. First, to explore the close interaction between these two fields, and the way in which they have shaped each other through the ages. Second, to focus our attention on specific instances of art/science interaction, using them as prisms through which one can reach a fuller understanding of major historical transformations.
Art History^Renaissance Art in Florence 1400-1600 Renaissance Art in Florence 1400-1600 A selective survey of major developments in Florentine Renaissance painting, sculpture, and architecture organized by genre. Particular emphasis on the relationship between art and religion and the ideology of Florentine republicanism and ducal absolutism. Issues of gender, the status of artists, and the function, audience, and patronage of art will also be considered.
Art History^Renaissance Art in Rome 1400-1600 Renaissance Art in Rome 1400-1600 A selective survey of major developments in Roman Renaissance painting, sculpture, and architecture organized by genre. Particular emphasis on the relationship between art and religion and the ideology of a theocratic papacy. Issues of gender, the status of artists, and the function, audience, and patronage of art will also be considered.
Art History^Renaissance Art in Venice 1400-1600 Renaissance Art in Venice 1400-1600 A selective survey of major developments in Venetian Renaissance painting, sculpture, and architecture organized by genre. Particular emphasis on the relationship between art and religion and the ideology of the Venetian commune. Issues of gender, the status of artists, and the function, audience, and patronage of art will also be considered.
Art History^Van Eyck to Brueghel Van Eyck to Brueghel The great age of Netherlandish art, from its roots in manuscript illumination through the masters of panel painting (Van Eyck, Van der Weyden, Bosch, Brueghel) up to the time of the iconoclasm of 1566. Focus on the relation of painting to the beholder; iconic vs. narrative images; rise of genres; art's expression of social and economic ideals; and class and gender issues.
Art History^Elizabethan Renaissance: Art, Culture, and Visuality Elizabethan Renaissance: Art, Culture, and Visuality The Elizabethan Renaissance course will review texts, minor arts, costume, self-presentation, performance, pageantry, architecture, decoration, and other non-traditional routes of addressing issues of visual culture and representation, and their political and social meanings. The courses's goals are to explore the role of visuality in Renaissance England, and to develop research skills. Students learn to analyze primary sources, both visual and written, and to read secondary sources critically.
Art History^Southern Baroque Art Southern Baroque Art The major artists (among them Caravaggio, Bernini, Velazquez, and Poussin) and the major concerns (including genres such as history painting, landscape, low-life, and notions of imitation and illusionism) of seventeenth century art in Italy, France, and Spain.
Art History^Visual Culture in Early Modern Spain and Colonial Latin America Visual Culture in Early Modern Spain and Colonial Latin America The mutual impact of European conquest on the visual and material cultures of Spain and Colonial Latin America. Paintings by El Greco, Velazquez, Zurburan, and Ribera are discussed in relation to the trans-Atlantic transmission of material objects including Mexican pictorial codices, European prints, architecture, screen paintings (biombos), featherwork, and enconchados.
Art History^The Dutch Golden Age The Dutch Golden Age The rise of a rich visual culture in 17th-century Holland that expressed the ideals, aspirations, and identity of the first bourgeois capitalist society. Rembrandt, Vermeer, and others in the context of contemporary aesthetic concerns (realism, optics) and social issues (domestic values, poverty and wealth, colonialism, national identity).
Art History^The Age of Rubens The Age of Rubens The culture of early 17th-century Europe as it was known (and created) by Sir Peter Paul Rubens, painter, scholar, and diplomat. Begins in Flanders and travels (with Rubens) to Italy, Spain, France and England, examining politics, religion and visual culture in each place. Key issues include the concept of artistic tradition; art and politics; crafting social status; workshop practice.
Art History^Types of Dutch and Flemish Painting in the 17th Century Types of Dutch and Flemish Painting in the 17th Century A general study of Netherlandish painting of the seventeenth century organized according to the genres or types of painting done at the time. The historical and social as well as the art historical contexts for the development in the Netherlands of such genres as history painting, portraiture, landscapes, still-life, and low-life and the kinds of meanings with which they were endowed.
Art History^Visual Culture in Early Modern France: Renaissance to Enlightenment Visual Culture in Early Modern France: Renaissance to Enlightenment French art from the 16th century to the mid 18th century. Beginning with the architecture, painting, prints, and decorative arts of the School of Fontainebleau, the course addresses the development of the Royal Academy and its interaction with popular culture, which culminates in the display of ambitious art in the public space of the pre-revolutionary Salon exhibition.
Art History^Eighteenth-Century British Art Eighteenth-Century British Art The story of art in 18th-century Britain involves the struggle to develop a national artistic identity which was distinct from the artistic traditions of Italy, Holland, and France. This course will address the meaning and function of history painting, portraiture, marine painting, and landscapes in relation to a rapidly expanding art market, taking into account the way that gender, class, and race played into the visual marking of status and power. We will also look at the ways in which visual
Art History^Nineteenth-Century Europe: Age of Revolution Nineteenth-Century Europe: Age of Revolution Topics in late 18th- and early 19th-century European art, either focusing on a pertinent theme and/or nation (e.g. Romanticism and gender in France) or introducing the art of Europe as a whole during this tumultuous period of revolution and reaction.
Art History^Nineteenth-Century Europe: The Invention of Avant-Gardes Nineteenth-Century Europe: The Invention of Avant-Gardes Visual arts in the later 19th century. Impressionism and after. The nature of avant-garde culture and its relation to emerging consumer culture. May emphasize Paris, or the struggle for cultural mastery in Europe.
Art History^19th-Century Europe: Age of Revolution 19th-Century Europe: Age of Revolution Topics in late 18th- and early 19th- century European art, either focusing on a pertinent theme and/or nation (e.g., Romanticism and gender in France) or introducing the art of Europe as a whole during this tumultuous period of revolution and reaction.
Art History^The Body in Avant-Garde French Art The Body in Avant-Garde French Art This course studies 19th-century art's search for a new visual language with which to represent the body. It explores ways in which sculptural and painted bodies convey, hide, and displace sexuality to create or prohibit desire, and how they produce different notions of femininity and masculinity. Artists to be discussed: Manet, Monet, Gauguin, Degas, Renoir, Pissarro, Morrisot, Cassatt, Rodin, Carpeaux, Cezanne, Millet, Courbet, Daumier, Claudel.
Art History^Nineteenth-Century Europe: The Invention of Avant-Gardes Nineteenth-Century Europe: The Invention of Avant-Gardes Visual arts in the later 19th century. Impressionism and after. The nature of avant-garde culture and its relation to emerging consumer culture. May emphasize Paris or the struggle for cultural mastery in Europe.
Art History^French Art of the 19th Century French Art of the 19th Century Introduction to French art from the Revolution to the First World War. Proceeds chronologically, putting visual art in the context of French political and social development.
Art History^Histories of Photography Histories of Photography Topics in 19th- and 20th-century histories of photography; for example, photography in relation to modernism, gender, pictorial genres, or consumerism.
Art History^Histories of Photography Histories of Photography Topics in 19th- and 20th-century histories of photography, for example, photography in relation to modernism, gender, pictorial genres, or consumerism.
Art History^Art and Colonialism Art and Colonialism Consideration of the relationship between visual representation and conquest, colonialism and imperialism. Topics include the history of visual ethnographies, representations and constructions of "race," exoticism, orientalism, and primitivism.
Art History^American Painting and Photography from the Civil War to WW II American Painting and Photography from the Civil War to WW II The focus of this course will be significant works by American art-makers, analyzed in the context of the dramatic transformations which occured in American Art from the 1860's to the 1940's. Emphasis will be placed on the analysis of both indigenous and adopted modes of representation within their historical and art historical contexts. Students will be encouraged to acquire the ability to closely "read" and interpret visual images as primary historical "texts."
Art History^From Manet to Mondrian From Manet to Mondrian Study of major artists and movements in European art from 1860-1930. Will begin with Modernism in the work of Manet and proceed to an examination of Impressionism, Post-Impressionism, Symbolism, Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Futurism, and early abstract art. Directions in the 20th century such as Dadaism and Surrealism will be addressed. Art will be considered in the cultural, political, social, and aesthetic contexts in which it was made. Emphasis is on painting, but important sculptors will
Art History^American Art (1800-Present) American Art (1800-Present) Looking at major developments in architecture, decorative arts, photography, and painting from Romanticism to post-modernism, this course addresses art and its social context over the last two centuries in what is now the United States. Issues include patronage, audience, technology, and the education of the artist as well as style and cultural expression. Field trips.
Art History^American Architecture: Domestic Forms American Architecture: Domestic Forms Taking as a point of departure specific exemplary houses, both vernacular and high-style architectural forms are studied from the perspectives of the history of style, of technology and of social use. Both the class as a whole and the student research projects take a case-study approach. Field trips.
Art History^Contemporary American Art Contemporary American Art In-depth study of visual culture in America, from 1960 to the present day, with particular attention to theoretical issues and the intersections of art with the culture at large. Previous course work in history of art recommended.
Art History^Art in the Early 20th Century Art in the Early 20th Century A consideration of major issues in art of the early 20th century. May focus on a particular place and period (e.g., Art in Paris or 1900-1914) or on a major artistic problem (e.g., Abstraction and Figuration).
Art History^Art in the Later 20th Century Art in the Later 20th Century A consideration of major issues in art of the present day. Emphases may include conceptual, video, performance, installation and digital art, as well as painting, sculpture and experimental practices.
Art History^Art in the Later 20th Century Art in the Later 20th Century This course will take a close look at some of the art produced in Europe and America in the decades following the Second World War. In addition to painting, sculpture, and photography, we will also examine video, performance, and intermedia art. Of particular interest will be defining the balance of concerns demonstrated by artists during this time between form and content, abstraction and representation, and the intersection of their artworks with culture at large--including issues of technology
Art History^Race and Representation in the Twentieth Century in the United States Race and Representation in the Twentieth Century in the United States The course examines a series of artistic formations and critiques of racial, ethnic, gender, class and religious identity among the diverse collection of individuals, cultures, and institutions that compose the United States. Material, formal, social, and political contexts will all be considered as we address a wide range of art practices and media.
Art History^Latin American Art Latin American Art In this course, students will examine how Latin American artists have utilized local indigenous traditions as well as global avant-grade innovations within the context of specific national histories and landscapes. Additionally, students will look at murals, painting, photography, printmaking, street actions, and new media from Colombia, Cuba, Guatemala, and Mexico, as well as contemporary Californian Chicano artistic practices.
Art History^Latin American Art: Before Columbus Latin American Art: Before Columbus This course presents the indigenous artistic traditions of parts of what is now Latin America, from the earliest monuments of the formative periods (e.g. Olmec and Chavín), through acclaimed eras of aesthetic and technological achievement (e.g. Maya and Moche), to the later Inca and Mexica (i.e. Aztec) imperial periods. Our subject encompasses multiple genre including painting and sculpture, textiles and metalwork, architecture and performance. More than a recitation of periods, styles, and monuments
Art History^Museums: An Introduction to the History and Practice of Collecting and the Public View Museums: An Introduction to the History and Practice of Collecting and the Public View This course will consider museums from historical, practical, and contemporary ethical perspectives. We will visit four of the museums on the Berkeley campus, and from the various viewpoints of humanities, social science, and natural science, we will examine collecting, exhibition, research, and audience in the early 21st-century museum setting. The course will require reading, discussion, four short writing assignments, and one final exam.
Art History^The American Forest: Its Ecology, History, and Representation The American Forest: Its Ecology, History, and Representation The American forest will be examined in terms of its ecology, history, and representations in paintings, photographs, and literary essays. This examination seeks to understand the American forest in its scientific and economic parameters, as well as the historic, social, and ideological dimensions which have contributed to the evolution of our present attitudes toward the forest.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Asian Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Asian Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Ancient Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Ancient Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Medieval Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Medieval Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Digital Humanities for Art Historians Digital Humanities for Art Historians An introduction to methods of digital imaging and computational visualization that are relevant to art historical investigation. Topics may include digital photography, modeling/rendering, and network visualization. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation, please contact the instructor.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 17th-18th Century Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 17th-18th Century Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 19th-20th Century Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 19th-20th Century Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: American/British Special Topics in Fields of Art History: American/British Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Global Modernism Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Global Modernism Topics explore themes and problems that often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History Special Topics in Fields of Art History Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Asian Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Asian Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Ancient Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Ancient Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Medieval Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Medieval Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 15th-16th Century Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 15th-16th Century Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 17th-18th Century Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 17th-18th Century Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 19th-20th Century Special Topics in Fields of Art History: 19th-20th Century Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: American/British Special Topics in Fields of Art History: American/British Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Precolumbian/Latin American Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Precolumbian/Latin American Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please see individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Transcultural Transcultural Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Open to all interested students, including graduate students. Some background in art history desirable. For specific questions concerning preparation for a 190 course, please consult individual instructor. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings in this series available on arthistory.berkeley.edu. Course may be repeated for credit when topic
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Asian Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Asian Concentration on specific problems or works in a particular area of art history. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Folk Art in America Undergraduate Seminar: Folk Art in America This seminar will look at specific case studies of the production and use of architecture, paintings, and quilting within specific communities in what is now the United States. We will look, for instance, at Shaker watercolors and design; Puritan painting and city planning; Amish, Hawaiian, and Hmong quilting; the ledger drawings and domestic structures of specific Native American groups; and the sacred architecture of the Hispanic southwest. Our timeframe spans four centuries but our "geographies"
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Ancient Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Ancient Concentration on specific problems or works in a particular area of art history. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Medieval Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Medieval Concentration on specific problems or works in a particular area of art history. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: 15th-16th Century Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: 15th-16th Century Concentration on specific problems or works in a particular area of art history. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Digital Imaging and Forensic Art History Undergraduate Seminar: Digital Imaging and Forensic Art History An introduction to digital modeling and rendering as forms of art-historical investigation. A series of case studies will allow students to explore the research possibilities presented by this new medium. Students will construct their own digital models as part of a research project.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: 17th-18th Century Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: 17th-18th Century Concentration on specific problems or works in a particular area of art history. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: 19th-20th Century Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: 19th-20th Century Concentration on specific problems or works in a particular area of art history. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Undergraduate Seminar: American Art, Architecture, and Design Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Undergraduate Seminar: American Art, Architecture, and Design Problems in American and British art, architecture, design of the 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, or 21st centuries; art institutions, collecting, or related topics.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Modern/Contemporary Art Undergraduate Seminar: Problems in Research and Interpretation: Modern/Contemporary Art This undergraduate semiar examines the resurgence of craft within contemporary art and theory. In a time when much art is outsourced--fabricated by large stables of assistants--what does it mean when artists return to traditional, and traditionally laborious, methods of handiwork such as knitting, ceramics, or woodworking? Our readings will consider historical and theoretical questions of process, materiality, skill, bodily effort, gendered labor, and alternative economies of production.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Latin American Undergraduate Seminar: Latin American This seminar will focus on a particular theme or corpus of art and visual culture from the Pre-Columbian, colonial, and/or modern and contemporary periods of areas of what is now Latin America. Topics will vary with each offering.
Art History^Undergraduate Seminar: Global Modernism Undergraduate Seminar: Global Modernism This seminar will focus on a particular theme or corpus of art and visual culture from a cross-cultural perspective within a modern context. Topics will vary with each offering. Assigned readings, discussion, and a substantial paper. For specific topics and enrollment, see listings outside 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Directed Research Directed Research Intended for advanced undergraduates wishing to continue research on topics already begun in a lecture or seminar or to pursue at a high level specialized topics not ordinarily covered in the curriculum. Usually results in a substantial paper. For general independent study see 199; for honors research, see H195.
Art History^Museum Internship Museum Internship Study and practical professional experience, usually for no fewer than 10 hours per week, involving a substantial project of a curatorial nature. Jointly supervised by a member of the professional staff of the participating museum and a faculty member. Internships ordinarily must be arranged well in advance; for further information, inquire at 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Special Study for Honors Candidates in the History of Art Special Study for Honors Candidates in the History of Art Directed study leading to the completion of the honors thesis. Consult the description of the Honors Program in Art History.
Art History^UCDC Core Seminar UCDC Core Seminar This course is the UCDC letter-graded core seminar for 4 units that complements the P/NP credited internship course UGIS C196B. Core seminars are designed to enhance the experience of and provide an intellectual framework for the student's internship. UCDC core seminars are taught in sections that cover various tracks such as the Congress, media, bureaucratic organizations and the Executive Branch, international relations, public policy and general un-themed original research.
Art History^UCDC Internship UCDC Internship This course provides a credited internship for all students enrolled in the UCDC and Cal in the Capital Programs. It must be taken in conjunction with the required academic core course C196A. C196B requires that students work 3-4 days per week as interns in settings selected to provide them with exposure to and experienc in government, public policy, international affairs, media, the arts or other areas or relevance to their major fields of study.
Art History^Special Field Research Special Field Research Students work in selected internship programs approved in advance by the faculty coordinator and for which written contracts have been established between the sponsoring organization and the student. Students will be expected to produce two progress reports for their faculty coordinator during the course of the internship, as well as a final paper for the course consisting of at least 35 pages. Other restrictions apply; see faculty adviser.
Art History^Supervised Group Study Supervised Group Study Instruction for a small group of students on a topic initiated by those students.
Art History^Graduate Proseminar in the Interpretation of Art Historical Materials Graduate Proseminar in the Interpretation of Art Historical Materials An introduction to the fundamentals of art history, including traditional and innovative perspectives designed for candidates for higher degrees. Offerings vary from year to year. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings before the beginning of the semester.
Art History^Seminar in Material Culture: The Interpretation of Objects Seminar in Material Culture: The Interpretation of Objects This seminar looks at both material culture theory and the practice of interpreting objects in the West and in Asia. It draws on the practices and inquiries of multiple disciplines including archaeology, anthropology, cultural geography, and art history . We will consider the variety of ways and contexts in which objects have been understood to "speak" as aesthetic vehicles and as cultural texts. Taught by two faculty members who have extensive experience as museum curators--one of American
Art History^Proseminar in Classical Archaeology and Ancient Art Proseminar in Classical Archaeology and Ancient Art This seminar is intended to introduce graduate students--both archaeologists and non-archaeologists--to the discipline of classical archaeology, history, and evolution, and its research tools and bibliography. Since it is both impossible and undesirable to attempt to cover the entire discipline in one semester, after two introductory lectures on the history of the field, we will address a selection of topics that seems representative of its concerns.
Art History^Seminar in Near Eastern Art Seminar in Near Eastern Art Seminar on critical aspects of Near Eastern art requiring intensive study and presentation of a research paper. Topics vary from semester to semester.
Art History^Seminar in European Art: Mimesis Seminar in European Art: Mimesis Mimesis, Greek for "imitation" is a key term in recent debates in a number of disciplines. However, what is at its core is often astonishingly undefined, open and ambivalent. Starting with antique and medieval works addressing key moments of mimesis we will also explore modern theories of mimesis. Crossing the threshold between pre-modern and modern examples will help us to understand the premises for the visual culture involving the rise of naturalism, and more generally the nature of
Art History^Special Topics in Fields of Art History Special Topics in Fields of Art History Topics explore themes and problems, often reflect current research interests of the instructor, and supplement regular curricular offerings. Detailed descriptions of current and future offerings available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Judith Stronach Graduate Travel Seminar in Art History Judith Stronach Graduate Travel Seminar in Art History This course explores site-specific themes, topics, and problems, reflects current research interests of the instructor(s), and suppplements regular curricular offerings. Detailed descriptions of current and (where known) future offerings available in 416 Doe Library.
Art History^Directed Dissertation Research Directed Dissertation Research Independent study open to qualified students directly engaged upon the doctoral dissertation.
Art History^Group Study for Graduate Students in the History of Art Group Study for Graduate Students in the History of Art Directed group discussion for graduate students, focused on selected books, articles, problems, primary sources, and/or works of art. Usually but not necessarily offered as preparation for a travel seminar or other supervised fieldwork.
Art History^Teaching the History of Art Teaching the History of Art Weekly meetings with the instructor to discuss the methods and aims of the course, to plan the content and presentation of the material for the discussion sections, and to set standards and criteria for grading and commenting upon papers and exams. In addition, after visiting sections early in the semester, the instructor will discuss with each GSI individually his or her performance and make any necessary recommendations for improvement.
Art History^Teaching History of Art Pedagogy Teaching History of Art Pedagogy This pedagogical seminar introduces graduate students to methods and theories of teaching history of art. The course has two primary goals: (1) to train new graduate student instructors to assist in teaching History of Art classes at UCB; and (2) to introduce studnets to techniques of designing and teaching their own classes. The seminar may be taken concurrently with the first teaching assignment or in the semester before beginning teaching.
Art History^Individual Study for Master's Students in the History of Art Individual Study for Master's Students in the History of Art Individual study in consultation with the graduate adviser.
Art History^Individual Study for Doctoral Students in the History of Art Individual Study for Doctoral Students in the History of Art Individual study, in consultation with the graduate adviser, intended to provide an opportunity for qualified students to prepare themselves for the various examinations required of candidates for the Ph.D. degree.
Anthropology^Introduction to Biological Anthropology Introduction to Biological Anthropology An introduction to human evolution. Physical and behavioral adaptations of humans and their prehistoric and living relatives. Issues in evolutionary theory, molecular evolution, primate behavior, interpretation of fossils. Prehistoric activities, racial differences, genetic components of behavior are defined and evaluated.
Anthropology^Introduction to Physical Anthropology Introduction to Physical Anthropology An introduction to human evolution. Physical and behavorial adaptations of humans and their prehistoric and living relatives. Issues in evolutionary theory, molecular evolution, primate behavior, interpretation of fossils. Prehistoric activities, racial differences, genetic components of behavior are defined and evaluated.
Anthropology^Introduction to Archaeology Introduction to Archaeology Prehistory and cultural growth.
Anthropology^Introduction to Archaeology Introduction to Archaeology Prehistory and cultural growth. Introduction to the methods, goals, and theoretical concepts of archaeology with attention to the empact archaeology has had on the construction of the histories of diverse communities - Native Americans, Hispanics, and Euro-Americans. It fulfills the requirements for 2.
Anthropology^Introduction to Social and Cultural Anthropology Introduction to Social and Cultural Anthropology The structure and dynamics of human culture and social institutions.
Anthropology^Introduction to Social/Cultural Anthropology (American Cultures) Introduction to Social/Cultural Anthropology (American Cultures) The structure and dynamics of human cultures and social institutions from a comparative perspective with special attention to American cultures and their roots. Case studies will illustrate the principles presented in the course. It fulfills the requirements for 3.
Anthropology^Introduction to Social and Cultural Anthropology Introduction to Social and Cultural Anthropology The structure and dynamics of human culture and social institutions.
Anthropology^Reading and Composition in Anthropology Reading and Composition in Anthropology Reading and composition courses based on the anthropological literature. These courses provide an introduction to issues distinctive of anthropological texts and introduce students to distinctive forms of anthropological writing, such as ethnography and anthropological prehistory. Readings will be chosen from a variety of texts by authors whose works span the discipline, from bioanthropology to archaeology and sociocultural anthropology. Satisfies the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
Anthropology^The California Frontier The California Frontier This course will focus upon the beginning of the historic period in California and on the interactions between California Indians and colonizing peoples. The course will begin with an introduction to the indigenous peoples of California and to their contacts with the expanding world system. It will focus upon the Spanish/Mexican, Russian, and American periods and will conclude with an overview of how these several communities, colonizer and colonized, interacted with and shaped one another.
Anthropology^Seminar in Physical Anthropology Seminar in Physical Anthropology Each instructor will select one or more of the following topics in physical anthropology: evolutionary theory, the fossil record, stages of the life cycle, the biological basis of behavior, the roots of human behavior, human adaptation, genetic components of human behavior, ecological adaptations, controversies and issues in primatology, the social behavior and ecology of monkeys and apes, behavioral evolution, and a host of other current research and theoretical issues.
Anthropology^Human Paleontology Human Paleontology Origin and relationships of the extinct forms of mankind.
Anthropology^Introduction to Human Osteology Introduction to Human Osteology An intensive study of the human skeleton, reconstruction of individual and population characteristics, emphasizing methodology and analysis of human populations from archaeological and paleontological contexts, taphonomy, and paleopathology.
Anthropology^Advanced Human Osteology Laboratory Advanced Human Osteology Laboratory Laboratory analysis of human skeletal remains including original research on paleodemography, paleopathology, metric and non-metric analyses, dental anthropology, curation, and computerization of Hearst Museum skeletal collections.
Anthropology^Primate Evolution Primate Evolution A consideration of the major groups of primates with an emphasis on the evolution of behavior.
Anthropology^Primate Behavior Primate Behavior Humans, apes, and selected monkeys are the primates of concern, and among this array patterns and degrees of social behavior vary greatly. Lectures present a general introduction to behavior and its ecological context, the interaction of biology and behavior from an evolutionary perspective, and an examination of the roots of modern human behavior.
Anthropology^Primate Social Behavior Primate Social Behavior Humans, apes, and selected monkeys are the primates of concern, and among the array of primates, patterns and degrees of social behavior vary greatly. Lectures present a general introduction to behavior and its ecological context, the integration of biology and behavior from an evolutionary perspective, and examination of the roots of modern human behavior.
Anthropology^Evolution of the Human Brain Evolution of the Human Brain Introduction to comparative vertebrate brain anatomy, neural development, and sensory-motor functions that are relevant to the study of human brain evolution and the evolution of uniquely human mental and behavioral capacities. Emphasis is on understanding the processes of evolution that are responsible for species differences in brain structure and function. Special attention will be given to animal communication, vocalization, neurolinguistics, and theories of language evolution.
Anthropology^Theory and Method in Physical Anthropology Theory and Method in Physical Anthropology A unitary view of past history and current trends in the field of Physical Anthropology, emphasizing schools of thought, important figures and major areas of research.
Anthropology^Evolution of Human Behavior Evolution of Human Behavior This course will ask to what extent human behavior in its various individual, group, social, and cultural dimensions can be understood using the relatively small number of basic principles provided by evolutionary biological considerations.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Biological Anthropology Special Topics in Biological Anthropology Varying topics covering current discoveries, research, theories, fieldwork, etc., in biological anthropology. Topics vary with instructor.
Anthropology^History of Anthropological Thought History of Anthropological Thought This course will present a history of anthropological thought from the mid-19th century to the present, and will draw upon the major subdisciplines of anthropology. It will focus both upon the integration of the anthropological subdisciplines and upon the relationships between these and other disciplines outside anthropology.
Anthropology^Introduction to Medical Anthropology Introduction to Medical Anthropology Cultural, psychological, and biological aspects of the definitions, causes, symptoms, and treatment of illness. Comparative study of medical systems, practitioners, and patients.
Anthropology^Environmental Effects on Human Health and Disease Environmental Effects on Human Health and Disease Examination of major disease-related ecological constraints of diverse eco-systems and the biological responses of human populations to these stresses: arctic, high-altitude, arid zones, grasslands, humid tropics, urban.
Anthropology^The Anthropology of Aging and the Life Course The Anthropology of Aging and the Life Course An anthropological approach to the study of age and aging and of the different periods of the life course: birth, infancy, childhood, youth and adolescence, adulthood and middle age, old age, and dying. How might we think--about time, the body, and what it means to talk about life--through a focus on age?
Anthropology^Special Topics in Medical Anthropology Special Topics in Medical Anthropology Special topics in cultural, biomedical and applied approaches to medical anthropology.
Anthropology^Historical Archaeology: American Material Culture Historical Archaeology: American Material Culture Formerly 121. Patterns in material culture as it reflects behavioral and psychological aspects of American culture since the 17th century. Topics include architecture, domestic artifacts, mortuary art, foodways, and trash disposal. Euro-American, African American, and Native-American examples are considered.
Anthropology^American Material Culture American Material Culture Patterns in material culture as it reflects behavioral and psychological aspects of American culture since the 17th century. Topics include architecture, domestic artifacts, mortuary art, foodways, and trash disposal.
Anthropology^Historical Archaeology: Theoretical Approaches in American Historical Archaeology Historical Archaeology: Theoretical Approaches in American Historical Archaeology This course will provide a background in the theoretical and methodological development of American historical archaeology, with particular emphasis on the ways in which archaeologists have approached the integration of archaeological, documentary, oral historical and ethnohistoric data. Emphasis on continuing theoretical developments in the discipline. Politics of historical archaeology, and ways in which historical archaeologists and other public historians make the past relevant to the present.
Anthropology^Historical Archaeology: Historical Artifact Identification and Analysis Historical Archaeology: Historical Artifact Identification and Analysis Learn to work with historical artifacts from the stage of recovery through the stages of analysis and interpretation. The focus is on the analysis of materials (i.e., ceramic, glass, metal, bone, shell artifacts) recovered from historic sites. Skills acquired include how to identify, date, record, illustrate, photograph, catalog, and interpret historical archaeological materials through a combination of lectures, lab exercises, and a research paper.
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Americas: Archaeology of North America Archaeology of the Americas: Archaeology of North America . Prehistory of North American Indians; prehistoric culture areas; relations with historic Indians.
Anthropology^Culture Contact in North America Culture Contact in North America This culture examines the implications of early encounters between Native Americans and Europeans, including how indigenous peoples responded to European contact and colonialism, and how the outcomes of these encounters influenced cultural developments in postcolonial contexts. The study employs a holistic approach that integrates evidence from archaeology, ethnography, ethnohistory, linguistics, biological anthropology, and native oral traditions. Case studies from the Caribbean, Florida, Louisiana
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Americas: Archaeology of Central America Archaeology of the Americas: Archaeology of Central America A survey of what archaeology can tell us about the pre-Columbian cultures of Central America: the Olmec, Maya, Aztec, and their neighbors.
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Americas: World of Ancient Maya Archaeology of the Americas: World of Ancient Maya A survey of the history of development of Maya society and culture in Central American prior to Eurpean contact in the 16th century AD.
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Americas: Andean Archaeology: People of the Andes Archaeology of the Americas: Andean Archaeology: People of the Andes This course covers the archaeology and history of the indigenous societies of the Andean region of South America. The lectures and readings emphasize major political, economic, social, and symbolic processes in the development of the Andean civilizations. Particular attention is paid to the development of the early states along the coast of Peru. The development of major centers in the highlands, and the relationship between the political, economic, and religious systems of the later empires and
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Americas: California Archaeology Archaeology of the Americas: California Archaeology Prehistory of California Indians; selected archaeological sites and current issues in interpretations.
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Americas: Archaeology of the American Southwest Archaeology of the Americas: Archaeology of the American Southwest This course will outline the development of vative cultures in the American Southwest from Paleo-Indian times (ca. 11,500 BC) through early European contact (ca. A.D. 1600). Topics to be covered include the greater environment, early foaging culture, the development of agriculture and village life, the emergence and decline of regional alliances, abandonment, and reorganization, and changes in social organization, external relations and trade. The course is designed as an advanced upper division
Anthropology^Old World Cultures: Stone Age Archaeology Old World Cultures: Stone Age Archaeology Overview of stone age cultures and development. Selected topics or geographic areas of paleolithic research.
Anthropology^Old World Cultures: Archaeology of Africa Old World Cultures: Archaeology of Africa This course provides an overview of the archaeological history of the African continent.Through case studies,it will explore Africa beginning with human evolution and cultural development to later colonial encounters and their impacts. It will also examine how groups and governments have used the past in politics, and the roles heritage plays in contemporary African Societies.
Anthropology^Old World Cultures: Archaeology of Europe Old World Cultures: Archaeology of Europe Selected topics and research problems in the archaeology of the Pleistocene and/or post-Pleistocene of Europe.
Anthropology^Disciplining Near Eastern Archaeology: Explorers, Archaeologists, and Tourists in the Contemporary Middle East Disciplining Near Eastern Archaeology: Explorers, Archaeologists, and Tourists in the Contemporary Middle East This course examines the roles that Near Eastern archaeology plays within the context of recent Middle Eastern history and society, from 1800 to the present day. Topics include the discipline's entanglement with imperialism, nationalism, science, tourism, the antiquities trade, media, and war. Students will examine and discuss ethnographies, technical reports, memoirs, films, and images.
Anthropology^Old World Cultures: Mediterranean Archaeology Old World Cultures: Mediterranean Archaeology Prehistory and early civilizations of the Mediterranean basin and its hinterland.
Anthropology^Pacific Cultures: Archaeology of the South Pacific Pacific Cultures: Archaeology of the South Pacific Selected topics and research problems in the archaeology of the southern Pacific from prehistory through to the establishment of complex chiefdoms in many locales. Stress on current issues and interpretations.
Anthropology^Hawaiian Ethnohistory Hawaiian Ethnohistory Developmental foundations of the 20th-century multicultural society of Hawaii, during the period 1778-1900, explored through an explicitly anthropological perspective. The following ethnic groups are emphasized: Native Hawaiians, British-American whites, Chinese, and Japanese.
Anthropology^Hawaiian Ethnohistory Hawaiian Ethnohistory Developmental foundations of the 20th-century multicultural society of Hawaii, during the period 1778-1900, explored through an explicitly anthropological perspective. The following ethnic groups are emphasized: Native Hawaiians, British-American whites, Chinese, and Japanese.
Anthropology^Human Biogeography of the Pacific Human Biogeography of the Pacific This course examines the history of human dispersal across Oceania from the perspectives of biogeography and evolutionary ecology. H. sapiens faced problems of dispersal, colonization, and extinction, and adapted in a variety of ways to the diversity of insular ecosystems. A dual evolutionary model takes into account cultural evolution and transmission, as well as biological evolution of human populations. This course also explores the impacts of human populations on isolated and fragile insular
Anthropology^Archaeology of East Asia Archaeology of East Asia Prehistoric and protohistoric archaeology in China, Japan, and Korea.
Anthropology^Archaeology and Japanese Identities Archaeology and Japanese Identities Course explores stereotypical images of traditional Japanese culture and people through archaeological analysis. Particular emphasis will be placed on changing lifeways of past residents of the Japanese islands, including commoners, samurai, and nobles. Consideration will be given to the implications of these archaeological studies for our understanding of Japanese identities.
Anthropology^Bioarchaeology: Introduction to Skeletal Biology and Bioarchaeology Bioarchaeology: Introduction to Skeletal Biology and Bioarchaeology An introduction to skeletal biology and anatomy to understand how skeletal remains can be used in reconstructing patterns of adaptation and biocultural evolution in past populations, emphasizing a problem-based approach to bioarchaeological questions.
Anthropology^Bioarchaeology: Reconstruction of Life in Bioarchaeology Bioarchaeology: Reconstruction of Life in Bioarchaeology This course deals with the skeletal biology of past populations, covering both the theoretical approaches and critical analysis of methods used in the study of skeletal and dental remains, and is considered the continuing course for those that have already taken introduction to skeletal biology, 127A.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Archaeology Special Topics in Archaeology Current topics in method and theory of archaeological research, varying with instructor.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Archaeology/Area Special Topics in Archaeology/Area Special topics in archaeology which meet the area requirement for the anthropology major.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Archaeology/Method Special Topics in Archaeology/Method Special topics in archaeology which meet the method requirement for the anthropology major.
Anthropology^Topical Areas in Archaeology: Prehistoric Art Topical Areas in Archaeology: Prehistoric Art Draws on study of art in non-literate societies and on archaeology to explore a range of prehistoric arts in cultural contexts; e.g., rock art; Ice Age Arts; prehistoric ceramics. Usses illustrative materials from the Hearst Museum.
Anthropology^Topical Areas in Archaeology: Archaeology of Hunter-Gatherers Topical Areas in Archaeology: Archaeology of Hunter-Gatherers Course will provide an overview of hunter-gatherer archaeology, focusing on the history of hunter-gatherer archaeology in North America and Britian; long-term changes in hunter-gatherer subsistence, settlement, mortuary/ceremonial practices and crafts/trade; social archaeology of hunter-gatherers including studies of gender, cognition, and cultural landscapes; and discussions of the relevance of hunter-gatherer studies in the context of world archaeology.
Anthropology^Holocene Paleoecology: How Humans Changed the Earth Holocene Paleoecology: How Humans Changed the Earth Since the end of the Pleistocene and especially with the development of agriculturally based societies humans have had cumulative and often irreversible impacts on natural landscapes and biotic resources worldwide. Thus "global change" and the biodiversity crisis are not exclusively developments of the industrial and post-industrial world. This course uses a multi-disciplinary approach, drawing upon methods and data from archaeology, palynology, geomorphology, paleontology, and historical
Anthropology^The Archaeology of Health and Disease The Archaeology of Health and Disease This course explores how archaeologists and bioarchaeologists study human families' and communities' conceptualizations and experiences of health and health care cross-culturally and through time. Students will be exposed to case studies drawing upon skeletal and material cultural evidence.
Anthropology^Topical Areas in Archaeology: Household Archeology Topical Areas in Archaeology: Household Archeology This class explores the questions: why study the archaeology of households? How do we define households and how can we identify and study them archaeologically? What research questions, strategies, and methodologies does the archaeological investigation of households entail? How does the study of households contribute to multiscalar approaches for understanding social organization? Why is this important? What are the causes and effects of changing scales of analysis?
Anthropology^History and Theory of Archaeology History and Theory of Archaeology A critical review of the historical background and philosophical premises of past and present anthropological theory with respect to its concepts of time and change.
Anthropology^Geoarchaeological Science Geoarchaeological Science This survey and laboratory course will cover a broad range of current scientific techniques used in the field and in the analysis of geoarchaeological materials. The course includes field and laboratory studies in analytical chemistry, geology, petrology/petography and a survey of dating materials in archaeology, the historical development of geoarchaeological science and other aspects of archaeological science applied to geoarchaeological materials.
Anthropology^Analysis of Archaeological Materials: Analysis of Archaeological Ceramics Analysis of Archaeological Materials: Analysis of Archaeological Ceramics Discussion of and laboratory instruction in methods of analysis of ceramics used by archaeologists to establish a time scale, to document interconnections between different areas, sites, or groups of people, to suggest what activities were carried out at particular sites, and to understand the organization of ceramic production itself.
Anthropology^Analysis of the Archaeological Record Analysis of the Archaeological Record Guidance in the preparation of excavated materials for publication, including sampling and analysis strategy, drawing, photography and write-up.
Anthropology^Field Course in Archaeological Methods Field Course in Archaeological Methods Practical experience in the field study of archaeological sites and materials. Coverage may include reconnaissance, mapping, recording, and excavation.
Anthropology^Archaeological Laboratory Practicum Archaeological Laboratory Practicum This is a practical laboratory analysis course that offers a team of students the opportunity to work closely with faculty on an aspect of their laboratory research in archaeological physical or natural sciences, or archaeological material analysis. May be taken concurrently with other laboratory courses or as the logical follow-up to a field school. Projects will vary by course.
Anthropology^Paleoethnobotany: Archaeological Methods and Laboratory Techniques Paleoethnobotany: Archaeological Methods and Laboratory Techniques An introduction to the basic approaches and techniques in archaeobotanical analysis. A series of different data types and their unique approaches will be discussed, including phytoliths, pollen, and DNA, with an emphasis on macrofloral remains. Laboratory study will include the major classes of plant remains likely to be encountered in archaeological sites. Discussion will emphasize the use of plant remains to answer archaeological questions, rather than study the plant remains for their own sake.
Anthropology^Environmental Archaeology Environmental Archaeology The major issues, research objectives, databases, and techniques involved in the study of past society's relationship and interaction with the natural environment. Particularly methods that use "noncultural" information in archaeological research, but with a cultural orientation. Major subjects addressed will be paleoenvironmental reconstruction; human-environment interaction, impact, and environmental degradation; paleodiet and domestication; land-use and social environments; with an
Anthropology^Museum Exhibit Curation and Design Museum Exhibit Curation and Design A practical introduction to contemporary museum approaches to exhibition design, with particular application to the design of exhibits that present cultural heritage in anthropology, art, and natural history museums. Both the theory of museum exhibit desing and practice will be covered, including critiques of representation; issues of cultural heritage; conversation, education, and installation standards; and incorporation of interactivity, including through digital media.
Anthropology^Public Anthropology: Museum Methods Public Anthropology: Museum Methods This course will introduce participants to the fundamentals of contemporary museum practices. It is intended for two groups of students: individuals who may be thinking of conducting research in museums, and may benefit from an understanding of the way these institutions work; and individuals who may be thinking of museum work as a post-graduate career. The course will include both discussion of museum concepts and practical application of these concepts through real-world exercises. While the course
Anthropology^Multimedia Authoring Part 1 Multimedia Authoring Part 1 This course is the first part in a two-part series of courses that coach students in research and presentation of archaeological information through nonlinear multimedia authoring. The content of the course varies and may focus on an area or a topic depending on instructor. Students experience the first stage of multimedia authoring process: research, planning, and design. The focus is on content development and evaluation of digital research sources, with an introduction to software skills and
Anthropology^Who Owns the Past? Cultural Heritage in a Digital Age Who Owns the Past? Cultural Heritage in a Digital Age A cross-disciplinary exploration of cultural heritage on a global and local scale through discussion, debate, in-class activities, and team-based research projects that draw attention to the impacts of digital technology. Themes include the creation and management of heritage sites; the ethics of archaeologists as stewards of heritage; listening to multiple voices of interest groups; destruction and looting; and the preservation, conservation, and public presentation of heritage.
Anthropology^Digital Documentation and Representation of Cultural Heritage Digital Documentation and Representation of Cultural Heritage A practical, hands-on overview of cutting-edge digital technology that is being used and developed for the documentation of archaeological sites. This course outlines a digital documentation strategy for collecting, processing, and integrating digital data from a variety of different media into a dataset that holistically describes place, including landscape, architecture, and other cultural artifacts.
Anthropology^Public Anthropology: Archaeology After-School Program Public Anthropology: Archaeology After-School Program An opportunity to work with sixth-graders in exploring the worlds of archaeology, history, and computer-based technologies. Meets the method requirement for the anthropology major.
Anthropology^Public Anthropology: Archaeology and the Media Public Anthropology: Archaeology and the Media Focus on the use of digital media to create narrative about the practice and products of archaeology. Students build a critical awareness of the way digital media are used by archaeologists, journalists, film and TV producers, and others. Students will experience the introductory stage of the digital media authoring process.
Anthropology^Public Anthropology: Archaeology and the Media Method Public Anthropology: Archaeology and the Media Method Focus on the use of digital media to create narratives about the practice and products of archaeology. Students work in teams to produce short videos (digital narrative or digital stories) from their own research. Students share equally the responsibilities of research and writing, directing, camera, sound recording, and editing. This course satisfies the method requirement for the anthropology major.
Anthropology^Energy, Culture and Social Organization Energy, Culture and Social Organization This course will consider the human dimensions of particular energy production and consumption patterns. It will examine the influence of culture and social organization on energy use, energy policy, and quality of life issues in both the domestic and international setting. Specific treatment will be given to mind-sets, ideas of progress, cultural variation in time perspectives and resource use, equity issues, and the role of power holders in energy related questions.
Anthropology^History and Theory of Ethnographic Film History and Theory of Ethnographic Film The course will trace the development of ethnographic film from its beginnings at the turn of the century to the present. In addition to looking at seminal works in the field, more recent and innovative productions will be viewed and analyzed. Topics of interest include the role of visual media in ethnography, ethics in filmmaking, and the problematic relationship between seeing and believing. Requirements include film critiques, a film proposal, and a final exam.
Anthropology^Field Production of Ethnographic Film Field Production of Ethnographic Film This course is devoted to training students in methods of ethnographic field film production. Based on the previous coursework in ANTHRO 138A, students will work toward the production of an ethnographic video from elected project proposals. In addition to weekly discussions of student projects, guest consultants and lecturers will lend their expertise on aspects of production as well as editing.
Anthropology^Controlling Processes Controlling Processes This course will discuss key theoretical concepts related to power and control and examine indirect mechanisms and processes by which direct control becomes hidden, voluntary, and unconscious in industrialized societies. Readings will cover language, law, politics, religion, medicine, sex, and gender.
Anthropology^The Anthropology of Food The Anthropology of Food This course examines the place of food in society and includes discussions of identity, taste, taboos, ritual, traditions, nationalism, health, alcohol use, civilizing society, globalism, and the global politics of food.
Anthropology^Comparative Society Comparative Society Theories of social structure, functional interrelationships of social institutions. Primary emphasis on non-Western societies.
Anthropology^Kinship and Family Kinship and Family Comparative study of the family and kinship systems in non-state and state societies.
Anthropology^Urban Anthropology Urban Anthropology A consideration of anthropological concepts and methods for the urbanization process in towns and cities.
Anthropology^Mobile City Chronicles: Gaming with New Technologies of Detection and Security Mobile City Chronicles: Gaming with New Technologies of Detection and Security This course studies the city through cases of 19th and 21st century urban detection, including detective fiction, epidemiology, urban planning, surveillance, ethnography, and related technologies. Students develop and playtest cellphone games that in turn require players to investigate cities. This "gaming the city" uses smart phones not only to read existing databases but also to write to them, producing new urban practice and knowledge. The course is organized as a research and game
Anthropology^Anthropology of Gender Anthropology of Gender The course explores major developments within feminist theory in the 20th century within an international context, with special attention to issues of class, culture, race, ethnicity, and sexuality.
Anthropology^Sexuality, Culture, and Colonialism Sexuality, Culture, and Colonialism An introduction to social theory and ethnographic methodology in the cross-cultural study of sexuality, particularly sexual orientation and gender identity. The course will stress the relationships between culture, international and local political economy, and the representation and experience of what we will provisionally call homosexual and transgendered desires or identities.
Anthropology^Anthropology of the Environment Anthropology of the Environment Surveys anthropological perspectives on the environment and examines differing cultural constructions of nature. Coverage includes theory, method, and case materials extending from third world agrarian contexts to urban North America. Topics may include cultural ecology, political ecology, cultural politics of nature, and environmental imaginaries.
Anthropology^Psychological Anthropology Psychological Anthropology In the contemporary world, different systems of knowledge, philosophies, and techniques of the self, understandings of normality and pathology, illness and healing, are increasingly engaged in a dialogue with each other in the lives, on the bodies, and in the imagination of people. The terms of this dialogue are often unequal and painful, yet they are also productive of new subjectivities and new voices. It is the task of a renewed psychological anthropology to study and reflect on these processes.
Anthropology^Utopia: Art and Power in Modern Times Utopia: Art and Power in Modern Times Modern times have been dominated by utopian visions of how to achieve a happy future society. Artists in competing social systems played a central role in the development of these visions. But artistic experiments were filled with paradoxes, contributing to the creation not only of the most liberating and progressive ideals and values but also to the most oppressive regimes and ideologies. The course questions: what is art, what can it achieve and destroy, what is beauty, artistic freedom, and the
Anthropology^Art and Culture Art and Culture Graphic and plastic arts and their relations to culture in non-literate societies; illustrative material from the Hearst Museum of Anthropology.
Anthropology^Modernity Modernity This upper division course presents episodes in the understanding of anthropos (man, humanity, civilization, etc.) in its modern figuration. The course will juxtapose the conceptual repertoire of key thinkers about modernity, and will examine episodes in the history of the arts and/or sciences.
Anthropology^Anthropology of the Contemporary Anthropology of the Contemporary This course is an introduction to the conceptual field of "the contemporary," a stylization of both old and new elements that stands in contrast to "modernity", and "post modernity", and which opens up inquiries into the actual state of things, particulary for anthropology. Anthropology 155, while not required, is highly recommended as a prerequisite.
Anthropology^Politics and Anthropology Politics and Anthropology Anthropological concepts relevant to the comparative analysis of political ethnography and socio-political change. Particular attention will be given to the interrelations of culture and politics.
Anthropology^Culture and Power Culture and Power The course examines how representations are situated within fields of power and, in turn, how political considerations are translated into cultural forms. Topics include: philosophy and history of social science, power/knowledge, the social, difference and power, social science and ethics.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Law Anthropology of Law Comparative survey of the ethnography of law; methods and concepts relevant to the comparative analysis of the forms and functions of law.
Anthropology^Religion and Anthropology Religion and Anthropology A consideration of the interplay between religious beliefs and institutions and other aspects of culture.
Anthropology^Forms of Folklore Forms of Folklore A world-wide survey of the major and minor forms of folklore with special emphasis upon proverbs, riddles, superstitions, games, songs, and narratives.
Anthropology^Narrative Folklore Narrative Folklore The study of folktales, myths, legends, and other forms of verbal art; methods and theories of folklore.
Anthropology^Topics in Folklore Topics in Folklore Special topics in folklore or ethno-musicology.
Anthropology^Introduction to Arabic Folklore Introduction to Arabic Folklore This course is concerned with the principal genres of Arabic folklore and the oral tradition in Arab culture. The reading material is in English and will be supplemented by slide presentations, a museum exhibit, and films.
Anthropology^Language, Culture, and Society Language, Culture, and Society This course examines the complex relationships between language, culture, and society. The materials in the course draw on the fields of linguistic anthropology, linguistics, sociolinguistics, philosophy of language, discourse analysis, and literary criticism to explore theories about how language is shaped by, and in turn shapes, our understandings about the world, social relations, identities, power, aesthetics, etc.
Anthropology^Data Analysis and Computational Methods Data Analysis and Computational Methods This course capitalizes on a successful approach of using definitional formulas to emphasize concepts of statistics, rather than rote memorization in both qualitative and quantitative anthropology. This conceptual approach constantly reminds the students of the logic behind what they are learning. Procedures are taught verbally, numerically, and visually, to reach students with different learning styles.
Anthropology^Research Theory and Methods in Socio-Cultural Anthropology Research Theory and Methods in Socio-Cultural Anthropology Introduction to research problems and research design techniques. Will involve local field research on the collection, analysis, and presentation of data. This course requires 15 hours of work per week including class time, outside work and preparation. One section meeting per week will be required.
Anthropology^Research Theory and Methods in Linguistic Anthropology Research Theory and Methods in Linguistic Anthropology This course provides an introduction to selected theories and methods in Linguistic Anthropology, with a focus on topics of relevance to ethnographic fieldwork. Readings and lectures are organized into three modules: Linguistic categories and their consequences for thought, the effects of social context on meaning, and the empirical basis of research on language.
Anthropology^China China Chinese culture and society with an emphasis on the village level.
Anthropology^Japan Japan Ethnological treatment of historic and modern Japanese culture, covering history, art and religion; family, kinship and community organization; political, economic and occupational patterns; cultural psychology and social problems in modern Japan. The approach utilizes both sociological and psycho-cultural forms of analysis.
Anthropology^Special Topics in American Cultures Special Topics in American Cultures Various topics which meet the American cultures requirement, taught by members of the Social/Cultural faculty. See the Schedule of Classes for each semester, and the department's Internal Catalog for course title, description, instructor name, and specific format.
Anthropology^California Historical Anthropology California Historical Anthropology Combining historical archaeology, ethnohistory, and ethnography, this course will take account of ethnic groups and their interaction in early colonial California; Native Americans; mission, presidio, pueblo, and rancho communities of Spanish/Mexican California; Russian frontier society at Fort Ross; and American expansion into California, especially the Gold Rush. The course will also examine how the colonial past affects ethnic relations and cultural identity among contemporary California Indians.
Anthropology^Oceania Oceania Ethnography of Oceania: Polynesia, Micronesia, Melanesia, New Guinea, and Australia.
Anthropology^Ethnography of the Maya Ethnography of the Maya An introduction to the anthropological study of Maya people in Southern Mexico, Guatemala, and Belize. The course focuses on certain parts of the Maya region, emphasizing selected themes and problems. We will explore regional history through the development of Maya studies and the historical transformations of Maya societies. These themes will be traced through studies of the Classic Maya, the Spanish conquest and colonization, indigenous resistance and rebellion, and recent pan-Maya activism.
Anthropology^European Society European Society Representative groups in historical and modern perspective. Rural-urban relationships and the dynamics of change.
Anthropology^Themes in the Anthropology of the Middle East and Islam Themes in the Anthropology of the Middle East and Islam Cultures of the contemporary Near East, with special emphasis upon Arab populations.
Anthropology^Topics in the Anthropological Study of Africa Topics in the Anthropological Study of Africa The course will focus on African societies and cultures, as well as on issues relating to the history of Africanist anthropology. Images and constructs of Africa or Africans will thus be contextualized in relation to prevailing anthropological theories at different times, and in different regions of the continent.
Anthropology^South Asia South Asia Cultural traditions, social organization, and social change, with an emphasis on India and Pakistan.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Social/Cultural Anthropology Special Topics in Social/Cultural Anthropology Various topics covering current research theory, method; issues of social and cultural concern; culture change, conflict, and adaptation. May combine more than one subdiscipline of Anthropology.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Cultural Anthropology/Area Special Topics in Cultural Anthropology/Area Special topics in cultural anthropology which meet the area requirement for the major.
Anthropology^Senior Honors Senior Honors Systematic readings in history and modern theory, collection and analysis of research materials, and the preparation of an honors thesis. Group or individual tutorials.
Anthropology^Senior Honors Senior Honors Systematic readings in history and modern theory, collection and analysis of research materials, and the preparation of an honors thesis. Group or individual tutorials.
Anthropology^Discourse and of the Body Discourse and of the Body This course juxtaposes discourse analysis and approaches to health and biomedicine, querying how ideologies of language and communication provide implicit foundations for work on health, disease, medicine, and the body and how biopolitical discourses and practices inform constructions of discourse.
Anthropology^Topics in Medical Anthropology Topics in Medical Anthropology Comparative study of mental illness and socially generated disease: psychiatric treatment, practitioners, and institutions.
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Pacific Archaeology of the Pacific Subject matter will vary; current issues and debates in the archaeology of the Pacific, e.g., trade, exchange, colonization, maritime adaptations, etc.
Anthropology^Historical Archaeology Research Historical Archaeology Research Historical archaeology seminar. Subject matter will vary from year to year.
Anthropology^Method Method Various topics and issues in the methods of archaeological analysis and interpretation: style, ceramics, architectural analysis, lithic analysis, archaeozoology, etc.
Anthropology^Archaeological Research Strategies Archaeological Research Strategies Required for all first and second year graduate students in archaeology. Three hours of seminar discussion of major issues in the history and theory of archaeological research and practice (229A), and of the research strategies and design for various kinds of archaeological problems (229B). To be offered alternate semesters.
Anthropology^Archaeological Research Strategies Archaeological Research Strategies Required for all first and second year graduate students in archaeology. Three hours of seminar discussion of major issues in the history and theory of archaeological research and practice (229A), and of the research strategies and design for various kinds of archaeological problems (229B). To be offered alternate semesters.
Anthropology^Writing the Field in Archaeology Writing the Field in Archaeology This seminar is intended to guide students in the definition of a field within archaeology, from initial conceptualization to writing of a field statement, dissertation chapter, or review article.
Anthropology^Advanced Topics in Bioarchaeology Advanced Topics in Bioarchaeology This advanced seminar course explores how we reconstruct past lifeways from archaeological skeletal remains. It deals with the skeletal biology of past populations, covering both the theoretical approaches and methods used in the analysis of skeletal and dental remains.
Anthropology^Advanced Topics in Bone Biology: Biocultural and Evolutionary Perspectives Advanced Topics in Bone Biology: Biocultural and Evolutionary Perspectives This advanced seminar course will discuss influences on bone health and maintence from a unique biocultural and evolutionary perspective.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Museum Anthropology Special Topics in Museum Anthropology Contemporary issues in museum studies from an anthropological perspective.
Anthropology^Fundamentals of Anthropological Theory Fundamentals of Anthropological Theory Anthropological theory and practice--following the rest of the world--have been undergoing important restructuring in the past decade. The course is organized to reflect this fact. We will begin by looking at recent debates about the nature and purpose of anthropology. This will provide a starting point for reading a series of classic ethnographies in new ways as well as examining some dimensions of the current research agenda in cultural anthropology.
Anthropology^Fundamentals of Anthropological Theory Fundamentals of Anthropological Theory Anthropological theory and practice--following the rest of the world--have been undergoing important restructuring in the past decade. The course is organized to reflect this fact. We will begin by looking at recent debates about the nature and purpose of anthropology. This will provide a starting point for reading a series of classic ethnographies in new ways as well as examining some dimensions of the current research agenda in cultural anthropology.
Anthropology^Topics in Science and Technology Studies Topics in Science and Technology Studies This course provides a strong foundation for graduate work in STS, a multidisciplinary field with a signature capacity to rethink the relationship among science, technology, and political and social life. From climate change to population genomics, access to medicines and the impact of new media, the problems of our time are simultaneously scientific and social, technological and political, ethical and economic.
Anthropology^Theories of Narrative Theories of Narrative This course examines a broad range of theories that elucidate the formal, structural, and contextual properties of narratives in relation to gestures, the body, and emotion; imagination and fantasy; memory and the senses; space and time. It focuses on narratives at work, on the move, in action as they emerge from the matrix of the everyday preeminently, storytelling in conversation--as key to folk genres--the folktale, the legend, the epic, the myth.
Anthropology^Theories of Traditionality and Modernity Theories of Traditionality and Modernity This seminar explores the emergence of notions of tradition and modernity and their reproduction in Eurocentric epistemologies and political formations. It uses work by such authors as Anderson, Butler, Chakrabarty, Clifford, Derrida, Foucault, Latour, Mignolo, Pateman, and Poovey to critically reread foundational works published between the 17th century and the present--along with philosophical texts with which they are in dialogue--in terms of how they are imbricated within and help produce traditionalities
Anthropology^Theories of Traditionality and Modernity Theories of Traditionality and Modernity This seminar explores the emergence of notions of tradition and modernity and their reproduction in Eurocentric epistemologies and political formations. It uses work by such authors as Anderson, Butler, Chakrabarty, Clifford, Derrida, Foucault, Latour, Mignolo, Pateman, and Poovey to critically reread foundational works published between the 17th century and the present--along with philosophical texts with which they are in dialogue--in terms of how they are imbricated within and help produce traditionalities
Anthropology^Seminars in Linguistic Anthropology: Fundamentals of Language in Context Seminars in Linguistic Anthropology: Fundamentals of Language in Context Intensive introduction to the study of language as a cultural system and speech as socially embedded communicative practice. This is the core course for students wishing to take further coursework in linguistic anthropology.
Anthropology^Science and Technology Studies Research Seminar Science and Technology Studies Research Seminar This course will cover methods and approaches for students considering professionalizing in the field of STS, including a chance for students to workshop written work.
Anthropology^Seminars in Area Studies: Africa Seminars in Area Studies: Africa Courses will vary from year to year. See Departmental Internal Catalogue for detailed descriptions of course offerings for each semester.
Anthropology^Seminars in Area Studies: South Asia Seminars in Area Studies: South Asia Courses will vary from year to year. See Departmental Internal Catalogue for detailed descriptions of course offerings for each semester.
Anthropology^Seminars in Area Studies: China Seminars in Area Studies: China Courses will vary from year to year. See Departmental Internal Catalogue for detailed descriptions of course offerings for each semester.
Anthropology^Seminars in Area Studies: Special Topics in Area Studies Seminars in Area Studies: Special Topics in Area Studies Courses will vary from year to year. See Departmental Internal Catalogue for detailed descriptions of course offerings for each semester.
Anthropology^Survey of Anthropological Research Survey of Anthropological Research Required each term of all registered graduate students prior to their advancement to Ph.D. candidacy.
Anthropology^Directed Research Directed Research Individual conferences to provide supervision in the preparation of an original research paper or dissertation.
Management^Leadership Communication Leadership Communication Leadership Communication is a workshop in the fundamentals of public speaking in today's business environment. Through prepared and impromptu speeches aimed at moving others to action, peer coaching, and lectures, students will sharpen their authentic and persuasive communication skills, develop critical listening skills, improve abilities to give, receive, and apply feedback, and gain confidence as public speakers.
Management^Problem Finding, Problem Solving Problem Finding, Problem Solving Problem Finding, Problem Solving (PFPS) teaches basic skills drawn from the fields of critical thinking, design thinking and systems thinking that support innovation. Specifically, it covers ways of collecting information to characterize a problem, framing and re-framing that problem, coming up with a range of solutions and then gathering feedback to assess those solutions. Following Confucius’s notion: "I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand." The class consists
Management^Data and Decisions Data and Decisions The objective of this core course is to make students critical consumers of statistical analysis using available software packages. Key concepts include interpretation of regression analysis, model formation and testing, and diagnostic checking.
Management^Economics for Business Decision Making Economics for Business Decision Making Business success depends on the successful positioning of the firm and the management of its resources. The goal of this course is to think systematically about achieving competitive advantage through the management of the firm's resources. We will analyze management decisions concerning real options, cost determination, pricing, and market entry and exit. We will use readings and cases along with class discussion to develop practical insights into managing for competitive advantage.
Management^Macroeconomics in the Global Economy Macroeconomics in the Global Economy This course develops and applies models of the world's economies to explain long-run trends and short-run fluctuations in key macroeconomic variables, such as GDP, wage and profit rates, inflation, interest rates, employment and unemployment, budget deficits, exchange rates, and trade balances.
Management^Financial Accounting Financial Accounting This course examines accounting measurements for general-purpose financial reports. An objective of the course is to provide not only a working knowledge but also a clear understanding of the contents of published financial statements.
Management^Introduction to Finance Introduction to Finance This is an introductory MBA course in investments. Students learn how to value assets given forecasts of future cash flows and about the risk characteristics of different asset classes. The first part of the course focuses on the time value of money. The second part of the course deals with measuring and pricing risk. Finally, the course touches on derivative-basics and capital market efficiency. An effort will be made to tie the theoretical underpinnings of finance to real-world examples.
Management^Operations Operations This course provides a broad overview of strategic, operational, and tactical issues facing manufacturing and service companies. Major topics include process analysis, quality management, project management, supply-chain management, service-systems management, and operations strategy. These issues are explored through lectures, case studies, and videos pertaining to a variety of industries, from fast food to fashion goods to automobile manufacturing to telephone call centers.
Management^Leading People Leading People How can you motivate employees to go above and beyond the call of duty to get the job done? How can you be sure that your decisions are not biased? What influence tactics can you use when you do not have the formal authority to tell someone what to do? This course adds to your understanding of life in complex organizations by covering topics spanning the micro (individual level of analysis), the macro (organizational level of analysis), and also topics that integrate these two levels.
Management^Marketing Management Marketing Management This course is designed for students who need to understand the basic concepts and techniques of marketing strategy as a foundation for more advanced study in the area. The course treats marketing from the perspective of strategic analysis and provides a framework for the decisions associated with the management of the marketing function in the modern organization focusing on customer analysis, competitive analysis and the analysis of marketing investments.
Management^Ethics and Responsible Business Leadership Ethics and Responsible Business Leadership This course provides students with the ability to anticipate, critically analyze, and appropriately respond to the social, ethical, and political challenges that face managers operating in a global economy.
Management^Fundamentals of Business Fundamentals of Business An introduction to business methods of analysis and terminology for nonbusiness graduate students. The course is taught in three five-week modules: (1) organizational behavior and management, (2) accounting and finance, and (3) marketing and strategy.
Management^Strategy, Structure, and Incentives Strategy, Structure, and Incentives This course uses insights from economics to develop structure, tactics, and incentives to achieve the firm's goals. It develops a framework for analyzing organizational architecture, focusing on the allocation of decision rights, the measurement of performance, and the design of incentives. Includes managing the vertical chain of upstream suppliers and downstream distributors, design and operation of incentive and performance management systems, techniques for dealing with informational asymmetries.
Management^Game Theory Game Theory A survey of the main ideas and techniques of game-theoretic analysis related to bargaining, conflict, and negotiation. Emphasizes the identification and analysis of archetypal strategic situations in bargaining. Goals of the course are to provide a foundation for applying game-theoretic analysis, both formally and intuitively, to negotiation and bargaining; to recognize and assess archetypal strategic situations in complicated negotiation settings.
Management^Game Theory (Online Version) Game Theory (Online Version) A survey of the main ideas and techniques of game-theoretic analysis related to bargaining, conflict, and negotiation. Emphasizes the identification and analysis of archetypal strategic situations in bargaining. Goals of the course are to provide a foundation for applying game-theoretic analysis, both formally and intuitively, to negotiation and bargaining; to recognize and assess archetypal strategic situations in complicated negotiation settings. This course is taught online.
Management^Energy and Environmental Markets Energy and Environmental Markets Business strategy and public issues in energy and environmental markets. Topics include development and effect of organized spot, futures, and derivative energy markets; political economy of regulation and deregulation; climate change and environmental policies related to energy production and use; cartels, market power and competition policy; pricing of exhaustible resources; competitiveness of alternative energy sources; and transportation and storage of energy commodities.
Management^Cleantech to Market Cleantech to Market In this course, interdisciplinary teams of graduate students work with scientists from the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and across the UCB campus to commercialize new solar, biofuel, battery, and smart grid/energy management technologies. Students are drawn from Business, Engineering, Science, Law, and the Energy and Resources Group. Students explore topics such as: Potential application in multiple markets; alignment with target or desired market(s); distinguishing advantages and disadvantages;
Management^Business Strategies for Emerging Markets: Management, Investment, and Opportunities Business Strategies for Emerging Markets: Management, Investment, and Opportunities This course helps students to study the institutions of emerging markets that are relevant for managers, analyze opportunities presented by emerging markets, analyze the additional ethical challenges and issues of social responsibility common in emerging markets, and learn to minimize the risks in doing business in emerging markets. This course is a combination of lectures, class participation, and cases.
Management^Topics in Economic Analysis and Policy Topics in Economic Analysis and Policy Advanced study in the field of economic analysis and policy. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Financial Information Analysis Financial Information Analysis Issues of accounting information evaluation with special emphasis on the use of financial statements by decision makers external to the firm. The implications of recent research in finance and accounting for external reporting issues will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on models that describe the user's decision context.
Management^Corporate Financial Reporting Corporate Financial Reporting This course examines the theory and practice of financial accounting and the issues involved in determining corporate financial reporting policies. It provides an in-depth knowledge of how financial statements are prepared but emphasizes the evaluation of accounting reports from a managerial perspective. Cases supplement lecture, discussion, and problem solving.
Management^Managerial Accounting Managerial Accounting This course emphasizes the use of accounting information throughout the planning, operation and control stages of managing an organization. The course is divided into three sections to reflect these three stages of management: 1) information for planning and decision making; 2) information received during operations (cost accounting); and 3) information for control and performance evaluation.
Management^Taxes and Firm Strategy Taxes and Firm Strategy This course will cover various topics in personal or corporate taxation or both. Topics will vary from semester to semester.
Management^Corporate Finance Corporate Finance This course will study the principles underlying alternative financial arrangements and contracts and their application to corporate financial management. In particular, it will examine the impact of incentive, moral hazard, and principal-agent problems, that arise as a consequence of asymmetric information, government intervention, managerial incentives and taxes, on financial decisions regarding capital budgeting, dividend policy, capital structure and mergers.
Management^Financial Institutions and Markets Financial Institutions and Markets This course will analyze the role of financial markets and financial institutions in allocating capital. The major focus will be on debt contracts and securities and on innovations in the bond and money markets. The functions of commercial banks, investment banks, and other financial intermediaries will be covered, and aspects of the regulation of these institutions will be examined.
Management^Asset Management Asset Management This course will examine four different types of asset markets: equity markets, fixed income markets, futures markets and options markets. It will focus on the valuation of assets in these markets, the empirical evidence on asset valuation models, and strategies that can be employed to achieve various investment goals.
Management^Investment Strategies and Styles Investment Strategies and Styles Introduction to alternative investment strategies and styles as practiced by leading money managers. A money manager will spend approximately half of the class discussing his general investment philosophy. In the other half, students, practitioner, and instructor will explore the investment merits of one particular company. Students will be expected to use the library's resources, class handouts, and their ingenuity to address a set of questions relating to the firm's investment value.
Management^Global Financial Services Global Financial Services Survey of the forces changing and shaping global finance and intermediation, especially the effects of greater ease of communication, deregulation, and globalized disciplines expected to continue to be essential to corporate finance and intermediation, e.g., investment analysis, valuation, structured finance/securitization, and derivative applications. The case method is utilized with occasional additional assigned readings and text sources.
Management^Portfolio Management Portfolio Management This course explores the broad range of portfolio management in practice. The class will examine the assets, strategies, characteristics, operations, and concerns unique to each type of portfolio. Practitioners will present descriptions of their businesses as well as methods and strategies that they employ.
Management^Mergers and Acquisitions: A Focus on Creating Value Mergers and Acquisitions: A Focus on Creating Value Survey of the day-to-day practices and techniques used in change of control transaction. Topics include valuation, financing, deal structuring, tax and accounting considerations, agreements, closing document, practices used in management buyouts, divestitures, hostile takeovers, and takeover defenses. Also covers distinctions in technology M&A, detecting corruption in cross border transaction attempts, and betting on deals through risk arbitrage. Blend of lecture, case study, and guest lectures.
Management^Behavioral Finance Behavioral Finance This course looks at the influence of decision heuristics and biases on investor welfare, financial markets, and corporate decisions. Topics include overconfidence, attribution theory, representative heuristic, availability heuristic, anchoring and adjustment, prospect theory, "Winner's Curse," speculative bubbles, IPOs, market efficiency, limits of arbitrage, relative mis-pricing of common stocks, the tendency to trade in a highly correlated fashion, investor welfare, and market anomalies.
Management^Designing Financial Models that Work Designing Financial Models that Work Spreadsheet financial models are often too big, complicated, and buggy to help people. In this course, students learn to design financial models that work because they're small (fit on a screen or two), straightforward (involve only basic math), clear (a non-MBA can follow them readily), and fast to build. These simple yet powerful representations of the cash flows for a new product/deal/venture help people share their vision, recognize tradeoffs, brainstorm possibilities, and make decisions.
Management^Financial Statement Modeling for Finance Careers Financial Statement Modeling for Finance Careers Financial statement modeling refers to taking historical financial statements for a specific company, projecting those statements two to five years into the future, and using the resulting projections for valuation and insight into the potential for transactions such as a strategic merger, an initial public offering, a leveraged recapitalization, or a leveraged buyout. This course teaches this skill set in a way that is simultaneously high level and hands-on.
Management^Topics in Finance Topics in Finance Advanced study in the field of finance. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Risk Management via Optimization and Simulation Risk Management via Optimization and Simulation Survey of the formulation, solution, and interpretation of mathematical models to assist management of risk. Emphasis on applications from diverse businesses and industries, including inventory management, product distribution, portfolio optimization, portfolio insurance, and yield management. Two types of models are covered: optimization and simulation. Associated with each model type is a piece of software: Excel's Solver for optimization and Excel add-in Crystal Ball for simulation.
Management^Decisions, Games, and Strategies Decisions, Games, and Strategies The course considers two techniques for guiding a managerial decision maker who has to make a choice now but will only know later whether the choice was good. Decision analysis helps if the outcome of the choice depends on "nature"; game models help if the outcome depends on human opponents (e.g., competitors). Foundations of the two techniques, and a variety of applications, are studied.
Management^Service Strategy Service Strategy This course is designed to teach general management principles involved in the planning, execution, and management of service businesses. It covers both strategic and tactical aspects, including the development of a strategic service vision, building employee loyalty, developing customer loyalty and satisfaction, improving productivity and service quality, service innovation, and the role of technology in services. Blend of case studies, group projects, class discussions, and selected readings.
Management^Topics in Operations and Information Technology Management Topics in Operations and Information Technology Management Advanced study in the field of manufacturing and operations. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Supply chain management concerns the flow of materials and information in multi-stage production and distribution networks. This course provides knowledge of organizational models and analytical decision support tools necessary to design, implement, and sustain successful supply chain strategies. Topics include demand and supply management, inventory management, supplier-buyer coordination via incentives, vendor management, and the role of information technology in supply chain management.
Management^Negotiations and Conflict Resolution Negotiations and Conflict Resolution The purpose of this course is for students to understand the theory and processes of negotiation so that they can negotiate successfully in a variety of settings. This course is designed to complement the technical and diagnostic skills learned in other courses in the MBA program.
Management^Power and Politics in Organizations Power and Politics in Organizations This course will provide students with a sense of "political intelligence." After taking this course, students will be able to: (1) diagnose the true distribution of power in organizations, (2) identify strategies for building sources of power, (3) develop techniques for influencing others, (4) understand the role of power in building cooperation and leading change in organizations, and (5) make sense of others' attempts to influence them. These skills are essential for effective and satisfying
Management^Power and Politics in Organizations Power and Politics in Organizations This course will provide students with a sense of "political intelligence," enabling them to: 1) Diagnose the true distribution of power in organizations, 2) Identify strategies for building sources of power, 3) Develop techniques for influencing others, 4) Understand the role of power in building cooperation and leading change, and 5) Make sense of others' attempts to influence them. This is an online course, utilizing multiple media and providing flexibility in when and how students
Management^Leadership Leadership This course will increase your awareness of your own strengths and opportunities for improvement while gaining an understanding of the qualities essential to being an extraordinary leader. By the end of the course, we are hoping that you will have: Increased your understanding of what distinguishes between more and less successful leaders and construct a plan for your own development as a leader; sharpened your ability to diagnose situations and determine how you can add value; gained experience
Management^Global Leadership Global Leadership Practical skills for global managers. Examines common issues and best practices for managing a global workforce and customer/partner relations. Generic cross-border management issues are discussed along with specific skill areas such as establishing credibility, building relationships, obtaining information, evaluating people, giving and receiving feedback, leading a virtual team, marketing and selling, transferring knowledge, and managing change. Skill areas are applied and adapted to key growth
Management^Special Topics in Management of Organizations Special Topics in Management of Organizations Analysis of recent literature and developments related to such topics as organization development, environmental determinants of organization structure and decision-making behavior, management of professionals and management in temporary structures, cross-cultural studies of management organizations, and industrial relation systems and practices are examined.
Management^Customer Insights Customer Insights Examines concepts and theories from behavioral science useful for the understanding and prediction of market place behavior and demand analysis. Emphasizes applications to the development of marketing policy planning and strategy and to various decision areas within marketing.
Management^Marketing Research: Tools and Techniques for Data Collection and Analysis Marketing Research: Tools and Techniques for Data Collection and Analysis This course develops the skills necessary to plan and implement an effective market research study. Topics include research design, psychological measurement, survey methods, experimentation, statistical analysis of marketing data, and effective reporting of technical material to management. Students select a client and prepare a market research study during the course. Course intended for students with substantive interests in marketing.
Management^Strategic Brand Management Strategic Brand Management The focus of this course is on developing student skills to formulate and critique complete marketing programs including product, price, distribution and promotion policies. There is a heavy use of case analysis. Course is primarily designed for those who will take a limited number of advanced marketing courses and wish an integrated approach.
Management^Marketing Analytics Marketing Analytics Information technology has allowed firms to gather and process large quantities of information about consumers' choices and reactions to marketing campaigns. However, few firms have the expertise to intelligently act on such information. This course addresses this shortcoming by teaching students how to use customer information to better market to consumers. In addition, the course addresses how information technology affects marketing strategy.
Management^High Technology Marketing Management High Technology Marketing Management High technology refers to that class of products and services which is subject to technological change at a pace significantly faster than for most goods in the economy. Under such circumstances, the marketing task faced by the high technology firm differs in some ways from the usual. The purpose of this course is to explore these differences.
Management^Influencing Consumers Influencing Consumers A specialized course in advertising, focusing on management and decision-making. Topics include objective-setting, copy decisions, media decisions, budgeting, and examination of theories, models, and other research methods appropriate to these decision areas. Other topics include social/economic issues of advertising by nonprofit organizations.
Management^Sales Force Management and Channel Strategy Sales Force Management and Channel Strategy The success of any marketing program often weighs heavily upon its co-execution by members of the firm's distribution channel. This course seeks to provide an understanding of how the strategic and tactical roles of the channel can be identified and managed. This is accomplished, first, through studying the broad economic and social forces which govern the channel evolution. It is completed through the examination of tools to select, manage and motivate channel partners.
Management^Topics in Marketing Topics in Marketing Advanced study in the field of Marketing. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^International Marketing International Marketing Provides frameworks, knowledge, and sensitivities to formulate and implement marketing strategies for competing in the international arena. Regions and countries covered include the Americas, Europe, Japan, China, India, Russia, Africa, and Asia-Pacific. Issues covered include global versus local advertising, international pricing strategies, selecting and managing strategic international alliances and distribution channels, managing international brands and product lines through product life cycle
Management^Social Media Marketing Social Media Marketing The course covers the implications of the evolution of communication on marketing strategy in the new landscape where traditional and digital media coexist and interact. While advertising spending on traditional media has recently declined, increasing amounts are spent online in addition to unpaid media. These new communication channels, however, are presenting significant challenges to marketers in selecting the best strategies to maximize returns. The course covers a number of topics including
Management^Pricing Pricing This three-module course aims to equip students with proven concepts, techniques, and frameworks for assessing and formulating pricing strategies. The first module develops the economics and behavorial foundations of pricing. The second module discusses several innovative pricing concepts including price customization, nonlinear pricing, price matching, and product line pricing. The third module analyzes the strengths and weaknesses of several Internet-based, buyer-determined pricing models.
Management^Business and Public Policy Business and Public Policy Introduction to political economy, the role of government in a mixed economy, business-government relations, the public policy process, regulation of business, corporate political activity and corporate governance. Compares United States corporate governance systems, public policies and political system to those of Western Europe and Japan.
Management^Managing the Legal Environment of Business Managing the Legal Environment of Business A manager must understand the legal environments which impact business and understand how to work effectively with lawyers. This course addresses the legal aspects of business relationships and business agreements. Topics covered include forms of business organization, duties of officers and directors, intellectual property, antitrust, contracts, employment relationships, criminal law, and debtor-creditor relationships including bankruptcy.
Management^Special Topics in Business and Public Policy Special Topics in Business and Public Policy Topics vary by semester at discretion of instructor and by student demand. Topical areas include: business and professional ethics and the role of corporate social responsibility in the mixed economy; managing the external affairs of the corporation, including community, government, media and stakeholder relations; technology policy, research and development and the effects of government regulation of business on technological innovation and adoption.
Management^International Business International Business This class uses a mix of lectures, class discussions and case studies to survey firms engaged in international business. We commence by examining the causes and consequences of increased global and regional economic integration, including an introduction of the impact of increased integration on firm strategy.
Management^Real Estate Investment and Market Analysis Real Estate Investment and Market Analysis Intensive review of literature in the theory of land use, urban growth, and real estate market behavior; property rights and valuation; residential and nonresidential markets; construction; debt and equity financing; public controls and policies.
Management^Real Estate Development Real Estate Development The interaction of the private and public sectors in urban development; modeling the urban economy; growth and decline of urban areas; selected policy issues: housing, transportation, financing, local government, urban redevelopment and neighborhood change are examined.
Management^Real Estate Finance and Securitization Real Estate Finance and Securitization Students will be introduced to the fundamentals of real estate financial analysis, including elements of mortgage financing and taxation. The course will apply the standard tools of financial analysis to specialized real estate financing circumstances and real estate evaluation.
Management^Real Estate Investment Strategy Real Estate Investment Strategy Analysis of selected problems and special studies; cases in residental and non-residental development and financing, urban redevelopment, real estate taxation, mortgage market developments, equity investment, valuation, and zoning.
Management^Housing and the Urban Economy Housing and the Urban Economy This course considers the economics of urban housing and land markets from the viewpoints of investors, developers, public and private managers, and consumers. It considers the interactions between private action and public regulation--including land use policy, taxation, and government subsidy programs. We will also analyze the links between primary and secondary mortgage markets, securitization, and liquidity. Finally, the links between local housing and related markets--such as transportation
Management^Special Topics in Real Estate Economics and Finance Special Topics in Real Estate Economics and Finance Topics vary each semester. Topic areas include advanced techniques for real estate financial analysis and structuring and evaluation; the securitization of real estate debt and equity; issues in international real estate; cyclical behavior of real estate markets; portfolio theory and real estate asset allocation.
Management^Introduction to Management of Technology Introduction to Management of Technology This course gives students an overview of the main topics encompassed by management of technology. It includes the full chain of innovative activities beginning with R&D and extending through production and marketing. Why do many existing firms fail to incorporate new technology? What are the success factors at each stage of innovation? The course introduces students to Haas and College of Engineering faculty working in the relevant areas and student projects at leading high tech firms.
Management^Biotechnology Industry Perspectives and Business Development Biotechnology Industry Perspectives and Business Development This course is designed to examine the strategic issues that confront the management of the development-stage biotech company, i.e., after its startup via an initial capital infusion, but before it might be deemed successful (e.g., by virtue of a product launch), or otherwise has achieved "first-tier" status. The intention is to study the biotech organization during the process of its growth and maturation from an early-stage existence through "adolescence" into an "adult"
Management^Design as Strategic Management Issue Design as Strategic Management Issue This course is a study of product design, facilities design, and corporate identity design. It will cover how these design strategies are integral to product development and influence customer satisfication, quality issues, manufacturing procedures, and marketing tactics.
Management^Innovation Strategies for Emerging Technologies Innovation Strategies for Emerging Technologies Every successful entrepreneurial high tech venture has at its core individuals with mastery of two skill sets: marketing and management expertise, and technological skill. This course is intended to provide the marketing skills needed for the management of an entrepreneurial high technology venture, regardless of whether the individual's "home" skill set is technical or managerial. We examine in depth successful marketing approaches for entrepreneurial companies as a function of markets
Management^International Trade and Competition in High Technology International Trade and Competition in High Technology This course looks at who is winning or losing and why in international competition in high technology industries. It will emphasize the interaction between business strategies and the economic and political variables that shape the development and diffusion of new technologies.
Management^Haas@Work Haas@Work The primary objective of this course and the associated innovation consulting projects is for students to learn and apply the approaches, skills, and behaviors required to successfully initiate and drive innovation in a complex organization. Students taking the course will use concepts and tools from several other Haas courses, including Economic Analysis for Business Decisions, Strategic Leadership, Leading People, Finance, and Problem Finding Problem Solving. As important, the student teams are
Management^Innovation in Services and Business Models Innovation in Services and Business Models This course examines services innovation, first covering key concepts, including how services innovation differs from product innovation, the role of openness in services, the role of business models, and co-creation. The course then introduces several tools and frameworks to apply those concepts to specific services situations. These include process design, process mapping and improvement, business models, co-creation, and platform innovation.
Management^Managing the New Product Development Process Managing the New Product Development Process An operationally focused course that aims to develop the interdisciplinary skills required for successful product development. Through readings, case studies, guest speakers, applied projects, and student research, students discover the basic tools, methods, and organizational structures used in new product development management. Course covers process phases: idea generation, product definition, product development, testing and refinement, manufacturing ramp-up and product launch.
Management^Project Management Case Studies Project Management Case Studies This course presents case studies of projects that required intervention to avert catastrophic failure. Students will discuss case studies and review real management problems of major corporations. They will create strategic plans to alleviate problems and learn how to manage a large project to a successful completion.
Management^Strategy for the Information Technology Firm Strategy for the Information Technology Firm This course is a strategy and general management course for students interested in pursuing careers in the global information technology industry. Students are taught to view the IT industry through the eyes of the general manager/CEO (whether at a start-up or an industry giant). They learn how to evaluate strategic options and their consequences, how to understand the perspectives of various industry players, and how to anticipate how they are likely to behave under various circumstances. These
Management^Special Topics in Innovation and Design Special Topics in Innovation and Design Advanced study in the fields of innovation and design. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Corporate Strategy in Telecommunications and Media Corporate Strategy in Telecommunications and Media This course is intended for students who wish to gain better understanding of one of the most important issues facing management today--designing, implementing, and managing telecommunication and distributed computer systems. The following topics are covered: a survey of networking technologies; the selection, design, and management of telecommunication systems; strategies for distributed data processing; office automation; and management of personal computers in organizations.
Management^Active Communicating Active Communicating This course develops the basic building blocks of impactful communication--e.g., concentration, energy, voice, physical expressiveness, spontaneity, listening, awareness, and presence--by drawing upon expertise from theater arts. Active, participatory exercises allow for the development and embodiment of effective communication skills. Class readings, lectures, and discussions address participants' specific workplace applications.
Management^Data Visualization for Discovery and Communication Data Visualization for Discovery and Communication This course exposes the problems of poor data presentation and introduces design practices necessary to communicate quantitative business information clearly, efficiently, and powerfully. This course identifies what to look for in the data and describes the types of graphs and visual analysis techniques most effective for spotting what is meaningful and making sense of it.
Management^Improvisational Leadership Improvisational Leadership This class explores the broad principles of improvisation, a performing art form that has developed pedagogical methods to enhance individual spontaneity, listening and awareness, expressive skills, risk-taking, and one’s ability to make authentic social and emotional connections. The ultimate aim of the course is to help students develop an innovative and improvisational leadership mindset, sharpening in-the-moment decision making and the ability to quickly recognize and act upon opportunities
Management^Leader as Coach Leader as Coach This course focuses on the art and science of coaching including theory and practice. The curriculum will cover theory and practice for three aspects of the coaching process – knowledge-based (information and skills), motivation-based (inspiration and passion), and strategy-based (communication and integration). The curriculum will focus on primary coaching skills, tools, processes and behaviors that a coach uses. In addition, participants will learn facilitation skills as the preferred methodology
Management^Storytelling for Leadership Storytelling for Leadership This course provides students with personal leadership development through the ability to tell "Who Am I" leadership journey stories, for use in the business context. For leaders, whose job it is to manage change, the approach to storytelling facilitates learning and is a vehicle to assist others in overcoming obstacles, generating enthusiasm and team work, sharing knowledge and ultimately leading to build trust and connection. This course give strategies, skills and practices for the
Management^Topics in Managerial Communications Topics in Managerial Communications This course will provide the student with specialized knowledge in some area of managerial communications. Topics include multimedia business presentations, personal leadership development, diversity management, and making meetings work. Topics will vary from semester to semester.
Management^Strategic Management of Nonprofit Organizations Strategic Management of Nonprofit Organizations This course prepares students conceptually and practically to create, lead, and manage nonprofit organizations. Focuses on the centrality of the mission, governing board leadership, application of strategy and strategic planning, and strategic management of issues unique to or characteristic of the sector: performance measurement, program development, financial management, resource development, community relations and marketing, human resource management, advocacy, and management.
Management^Nonprofit Boards Nonprofit Boards The purpose of this class is to acquaint Master of Business Administration students, many of whom will be asked to serve on nonprofit boards throughout their careers, with the nonprofit sector and the roles and responsibilities of nonprofit boards. Students will learn why nonprofit boards exist, how they are structured, how they differ from corporate boards, what their legal responsibilities are, how boards and chief executives relate to each other, and how boards contribute to the effectiveness
Management^Strategic and Sustainable Business Solutions Strategic and Sustainable Business Solutions This course explores the concept and practice of corporate sustainability (CS) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) through a series of lectures, guest speakers, and live consulting projects focused on CS and CSR challenges facing actual companies. The course provides the tools and experiences that sustainable management practitioners can utilize as a part of their value-creating strategies. Viewing CS and CSR from a corporate strategy perspective enables students to understand how considerations
Management^Strategic Financial Management of Nonprofit Organizations Strategic Financial Management of Nonprofit Organizations The course focuses on financial management issues faced by board members and senior and executive managers in nonprofit organizations. Students learn tools and techniques for effective planning and budgeting and how to control, evaluate and revise plans. Use and development of internal and external financial reports are studied with an emphasis on using financial information in decision making. Tools and techniques of financial statement analysis, interpretation, and presentation are practiced.
Management^Social Investing--Recent Findings in Management and Finance Social Investing--Recent Findings in Management and Finance This course introduces the field of social investment. The use of ESG (environmental, social, and governance) criteria is becoming increasingly prevalent among both high net worth individuals and institutions. Many ethical and religious traditions advocate altruism and community-mindedness in all dealings, while some economic and financial theorists argue for a narrow focus on risk and reward, with little regard for the impact of decisions on stakeholder groups or the environment.
Management^Haas Socially Responsible Investment Fund Haas Socially Responsible Investment Fund In this course, students manage a real investment fund ($1.7 million +) focused on both social and financial returns. Through the Fund students have the opportunity to test the investment and corporate responsibility principles they have learned in the classroom, and to experience the complexities, challenges, and rewards of the investing world. Students have full responsibility for investment decisions, including conducting their own research on companies’ environmental, social and governance (ESG)
Management^Topics in Nonprofit and Public Management Topics in Nonprofit and Public Management Advanced study in the field of nonprofit and public management. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Social Sector Solutions: Social Enterprise Social Sector Solutions: Social Enterprise The purpose of this course is to develop students' skills and knowledge in problem solving, management consulting, and nonprofit organizations. Instruction covers frameworks for problem solving, senior management consulting, and assessing nonprofit organizations. The course includes an assignment to a consultation team that works with a select nonprofit client to help them succeed in an entrepreneurial venture. A partnership with a professional management consulting firm, McKinsey & Company
Management^Topics in Socially Responsible Business Topics in Socially Responsible Business Advanced study in the field of Socially Responsible Business. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Individually Supervised Study for Graduate Students Individually Supervised Study for Graduate Students Individually supervised study of subjects not available to the student in the regular schedule, approved by faculty adviser as appropriate for the student's program.
Management^Curricular Practical Training Internship Curricular Practical Training Internship This is an independent study course for international students doing internships under the Curricular Practical Training program. Requires a paper exploring how the theoretical constructs learned in MBA courses were applied during the internship.
Management^Selected Topics for MBA Students Selected Topics for MBA Students The course focuses on a specific industry, field of management, or region of the world and is initiated and organized by students. It is usually a survey course. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship This course is about how to start a new business and how to write a business plan. Students are organized in teams of four around new venture ideas of their own choosing. They conduct research, consult with members of the business community, perform analysis, and write a formal business plan. They then present an appeal for funding to a panel consisting of the instructors and members of the investing community.
Management^Venture Capital and Private Equity Venture Capital and Private Equity This is an advanced case-based course intended to provide the background, tools, and themes of the venture capital industry. The course is organized in four modules of the private equity cycle: (1) fund raising -- examines how private equity funds are raised and structured, (2) investing -- considers the interactions between private equity investors and the entrepreneurs that they finance, (3) exiting -- examines the process through which private equity investors exit their investments; and (4)
Management^Opportunity Recognition: Technology and Entrepreneurship in Silicon Valley Opportunity Recognition: Technology and Entrepreneurship in Silicon Valley This course is intended to provide the core skills needed for the identification of opportunities that can lead to successful, entrepreneurial high technology ventures, regardless of the individual's "home" skill set, whether technical or managerial. We examine in depth the approaches most likely to succeed for entrepreneurial companies as a function of markets and technologies. Emphasis is placed on the special requirements for creating and executing strategy in a setting of rapid technological
Management^New Venture Finance New Venture Finance This is a course about financing new entrepreneurial ventures, emphasizing those that have the possibility of creating a national or international impact or both. It will take two perspectives - the entrepreneur's and the investor's - and it will place a special focus on the venture capital process, including how they are formed and managed, accessing the public markets, mergers, and strategic alliances.
Management^Case Studies in Entrepreneurship Case Studies in Entrepreneurship This course integrates the learnings from summer entrepreneurships into academic experience. Classes will include development of an analysis of cases based on the internship, and opportunities to meet with management of the host programs. By the end of the semester, students will better understand what it takes to run an entrepreneurial enterprise.
Management^The Lean Launch Pad The Lean Launch Pad This course provides real world, hands-on learning on what it’s like to actually start a hightech company. This class is not about how to write a business plan. It’s not an exercise on how smart you are in a classroom, or how well you use the research library to size markets. And the end result is not a PowerPoint slide deck for a VC presentation. And it is most definitely not an incubator where you come to build the “hot-idea” that you have in mind. This is a practical class: Our goal
Management^Investing in Entrepreneurial Opportunities: Building an Investment Screen, Methodology, and Process Investing in Entrepreneurial Opportunities: Building an Investment Screen, Methodology, and Process This course will provide students with an education in to the complexities and unique problems of entrepreneurship in companies with great growth potential, but that are facing significant challenges to achieving that potential. This class is designed to provide students with the tools and skills most critical to successfully screening, investing in, and/or leading companies that have both a great set future growth opportunities and a great set of current problems. This class will use case studies
Management^Top-Down Law Top-Down Law Survey of legal and regulatory issues and problems that confront founders and CEOs of entrepreneurial ventures. The course is intended to broaden students' perspective and knowledge about the legal system/process so that they are prepared to (a) identify, analyze, and deal with legal issues, (b) understand and respond to legal and policy grounds for laws and regulations, and (c) work effectively and efficiently with inside and outside legal counsel to resolve legal problems and manage legal risk.
Management^Entrepreneurship Workshop for Start-ups Entrepreneurship Workshop for Start-ups This workshop is intended for students who have their own experiemental venture project under development. The business concept may be in the startup mode, or further along in its evolution. The pedagogy is one of "guided" entrepreneurship where students, often working in teams, undertake the real challenges of building a venture. Students must be willing to discuss their project with others in the workshop as group deliberation of the entrepreneurial challenges is a key component of the
Management^Entrepreneurship in Biotechnology Entrepreneurship in Biotechnology An introduction to the complexities and unique problems of entrepreneurship in the life sciences and is designed for both entrepreneurs and students who may some day found or work in an emerging life science-based company. Students are exposed to the topics most critical to successfully founding, financing, and operating a life science company and are expected to perform many of the tasks which founders and early venture managers normally undertake.
Management^Business Model Innovation and Entrepreneurial Strategy Business Model Innovation and Entrepreneurial Strategy The class teaches how to characterize and analyze business models and how to efficiently construct and test new business models. The course examines businesses across industries and phases of a firm's growth. Critical entrepreneurial strategies are illuminated for new ventures or in building a new enterprise inside a corporation. The course provides students with the skills and knowledge to rapidly assess and shape business models to their advantage in constructing new enterprises.
Management^Special Topics in Entrepreneurship Special Topics in Entrepreneurship Courses of this kind will cover issues in entrepreneurship that either appeal to a specialized interest by type of firm being started (e.g., new ventures in computer software) or in the aspect of the entrepreneurial process being considered (e.g., new venture funding). The courses typically will be designed to take advantage of the access offered by the University and the locale to knowledgeable and experienced members of the business community.
Management^Special Topics in Business Administration Special Topics in Business Administration Advanced study in various fields of business administration. Topics will vary from year to year and will be announced at the beginning of each semester.
Management^Healthcare in the 21st Century Healthcare in the 21st Century This course gives a systematic overview of the U.S. health care system by providing students with an understanding of its structure, financing, and special properties. Applies social science theory, disciplinary contributions, and research findings to the understanding of health care delivery problems; examines current courses of data about health status, health services use, financing, and performance indicators; and analyzes the larger management and policy issues that drive reform efforts.
Management^Health Care Finance Health Care Finance This course covers the strategic financial management in the health services industry, including provider organizations (e.g., hospitals and physician groups) and insurance firms. Cases are used to apply the financial analysis and planning skills learned in the course. Topic areas include financial statement analysis, cost behavior, pricing and service decisions, planning and budgeting, management control, debt and equity financing, risk and return, capital budgeting, and project risk assessment.
Management^Innovations in Healthcare Innovations in Healthcare The purpose of this course is to provide students with insights into the newest innovations in healthcare service delivery, information technology, and medical devices. Through presentations by leading entrepreneurs in the field, students will be challenged to make investment decisions in those firms with the greatest promise. Students will also be asked to develop an investment philosopy that supports their commitments to specific companies.
Management^International Business Development for MBAs International Business Development for MBAs This course explores the issues of conducting business in an international context, including an analysis of project management, information resources, and cultural differences. The three-week project, typically in a developing economy, provides a real-life application of theories of this course and of the first-year MBA courses. The fall segment highlights the presentations of each returning team on their project findings and experiences.
Management^International Business Development for MBAs International Business Development for MBAs This course explores the issues of conducting business in an international context, including an analysis of project management, information resources, and cultural differences. The three-week project, typically in a developing economy, provides a real-life application of theories of this course and of the first-year MBA courses. The fall segment highlights the presentations of each returning team on their project findings and experiences.
Management^Seminar in International Business Seminar in International Business This course involves a series of speaker and seminar-type classes in preparation for a two-week study tour of a specific country or region. Participants will visit companies and organizations and meet with top-level management to learn about the opportunities and challenges of operating in a specific country or region. Evaluation is based on student presentations, participation, and a research paper.
Management^MBA Exchange Program MBA Exchange Program Students who participate in one of the Haas School's domestic or international exchange programs receive credit (usually 12 units) at Haas for the set of courses that they successfully complete at their host school. The courses that the students take at the host school are subject to review by the MBA Program office to ensure that they match course requirements at the Haas School.
Management^Strategic Leadership Strategic Leadership Course covers core topics in strategy, including selection of goals; the choice of products and services to offer; competitive positioning in product markets; decisions about scope and diversity; and the design of organizational structure, administrative systems, and other issues of control and internal regulation.
Management^Global Strategy and Multinational Enterprise Global Strategy and Multinational Enterprise Identifies the management challenges facing international firms. Attention to business strategies, organizational structures, and the role of governments in the global environment. Special attention to the challenges of developing and implementing global new product development strategies when industrial structures and government policies differ. Efficacy of joint ventures and strategic alliances. Implications for industrial policy and global governance.
Management^Competitive and Corporate Strategy Competitive and Corporate Strategy Examines optimal production and pricing policies for firms in competitive environments; optimal strategies through time; strategies in the presence of imperfect information. How differing market structures and government policies (including taxation) affect output and pricing decisions. Social welfare implications of decisions by competitive firms also explored.
Management^Strategic Management and the Organization of Health Services Strategic Management and the Organization of Health Services This is a course in strategic management of health services organizations. It systematically addresses system-wide, organization-wide, group-level, and individual-level issues in strategy formulation, content, implementation, and performance. It considers internal and external factors that affect organizational performance. Emphasis is on the development and implementation of strategies to meet stakeholders' demands, and total quality management approaches. This course covers a wide variety of health
Management^Marketing Strategy Marketing Strategy Strategic planning theory and methods with an emphasis on customer, competitor, industry, and environmental analysis and its application to strategy development and choice.
Management^Teaching Business Teaching Business This course will cover the important skills and resources necessary to be an effective graduate student instructor (GSI) in the Haas School of Business. GSIs are an integral part of instruction at Haas, supporting faculty teaching through administrative and pedagogical support. This course seeks to prepare MBA students for their first GSI positions, ensuring that they are ready for the many potential challenges that might await them in the ensuing semester. Students will learn effective teaching
Public Health^Healthy People: Introduction to Health Promotion Healthy People: Introduction to Health Promotion Introduction to personal and community health, drawing on physical and social sciences. Specific areas include stress, alcohol and drugs, nutrition, exercise, the environment, communication, and sexuality. Readings, lectures, and discussions explore key issues for students and examine those issues in the context of contemporary American society. Public health approaches to disease prevention and health promotion are explored for each topic.
Public Health^Healthy People: Introduction to Health Promotion Healthy People: Introduction to Health Promotion This course introduces students to the basic theories and skills of personal and community health promotion within a public health context. Using a broad multi-disciplinary perspective, the course will examine selected health topics with particular attention to individual and group behaviors and their implications for personal and community health.
Public Health^Freshman Seminar in Public Health Freshman Seminar in Public Health Seminar limited to 15 freshmen led by senior faculty on broad topics in public health such as financing health care, promoting preventive behavior, controlling major public health problems such as world hunger, AIDS, drugs, and the population explosion.
Public Health^Field Study Field Study Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of public health in off-campus organizations. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required.
Public Health^Bacterial Pathogenesis Bacterial Pathogenesis This course for upper division and graduate students will explore the molecular and cellular basis of microbial pathogenesis. The course will focus on model microbial systems which illustrate mechanisms of pathogenesis. Most of the emphasis will be on bacterial pathogens of mammals, but there will be some discussion of viral and protozoan pathogens. There will be an emphasis on experimental approaches. The course will also include some aspects of bacterial genetics and physiology, immune response
Public Health^Drugs, Health, and Society Drugs, Health, and Society Introduces undergraduates to concepts basic to understanding and analyzing relationships between drugs, health, and society. Using a broad multi-disciplinary perspective, examines legal and illegal drugs and their effects on personal and community health. Prevention of drug problems at the policy, community, organization, and individual levels will be examined.
Public Health^Health Promotion in a College Setting Health Promotion in a College Setting Topics include health promotion, medical self-care, and delivery of health care service. Through a combined theory and practice approach, topics are covered as they apply to the campus community. The course is divided into three sections corresponding to particular campus health field experiences in which students may be involved.
Public Health^Health Promotion in a College Setting Health Promotion in a College Setting Topics include health promotion, medical self-care, and delivery of health care service. Through a combined theory and practice approach, topics are covered as they apply to the campus community. The course is divided into three sections corresponding to particular campus health field experiences in which students may be involved.
Public Health^Policy, Planning, and Evaluation of Health Promotion in a College Setting Policy, Planning, and Evaluation of Health Promotion in a College Setting Theory and practice of policy, planning, implementation, and evaluation of health promotion programs in a college setting. Comparison of different methodologies (peer education, teaching, problem-posing, organizational change), content areas (stress, nutrition, alcohol and drugs, AIDS, sexuality, women's health, self-care, health services), and settings (clinical, classroom, living room, campus).
Public Health^Violence, Social Justice, and Public Health Violence, Social Justice, and Public Health This course addresses violence as a public health issue, using an interdisciplinary public health approach to enable undergraduate students to explore and analyze violence from personal, social, community, and political perspectives. Beginning with individual experiences of violence and its impact, the course will go on to focus on gender- and race-based violence, firearms, poverty, youth, and collective violence; students will learn to apply public health strategies to identify causes of violence
Public Health^Global Health: A Multidisciplinary Examination Global Health: A Multidisciplinary Examination This course examines health at the individual and community/global level by examining the interplay of many factors, including the legal, social, political, and physical environments; economic forces; access to food, safe water, sanitation, and affordable preventive/medical care; nutrition; cultural beliefs and human behaviors; and religion; among others. Students will be expected to read, understand, and use advanced materials from diverse disciplines. Class accompanied by case-based discussions.
Public Health^Campus/Community Health Impact Program Campus/Community Health Impact Program This course looks at the issues of substance abuse, HIV prevention, and sexual health, particularly in relation to underpresented groups, including African-American, Chicano/Latino, and LGBT communities. It covers principles of public health, community engagement, social justice, and health promotion. Students have the chance to participate in community outreach and develop basic outreach and health educator skills.
Public Health^Seminar on Social, Political, and Ethical Issues in Health and Medicine Seminar on Social, Political, and Ethical Issues in Health and Medicine An interdisciplinary approach to health and medicine administered through the Health and Medical Apprenticeship Program (HMAP). Guest lecturers will speak on the social, political, and ethical aspects of health and medicine; students will then discuss and present analyses of the reading materials as well as issues raised by the speakers.
Public Health^Introduction to Global Health Disparities Research Introduction to Global Health Disparities Research This course is designed to prepare trainees in the UC Berkeley "Minority Health/Global Health" (MH/GH) program to conduct a ten-week infectious disease research project in a disease-endemic country. The course provides a background in neglected tropical disease research, international research ethics, and the conduct of health research in low-resource settings.
Public Health^Health Economics and Public Policy Health Economics and Public Policy This course focuses on a selected set of the major health policy issues and uses economics to uncover and better understand the issues. The course examines the scope for government intervention in health markets.
Public Health^The Aging Human Brain The Aging Human Brain The course will survey the field of the human brain, with introductory lectures on the concepts of aging, and brief surveys of normal neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neurochemistry, and neuropsychology as well as methods such as imaging, epidemiology, and pathology. The neurobiological changes associated with aging will be covered from the same perspectives: neuropsychology, anatomy, biochemistry, and physiology. Major neurological diseases of aging including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease will
Public Health^Introduction to Risk and Demographic Statistics Introduction to Risk and Demographic Statistics Statistical and evaluation methods in studies of human mortality, morbidity, and natality. History of statistical terminology and notation, critical appraisal of registry and census data, measurement of risk and introduction to life tables. Computational systems and the analysis of mass data.
Public Health^Introduction to Biostatistics Introduction to Biostatistics An intensive introductory course in statistical methods used in applied research. Emphasis on principles of statistical reasoning, underlying assumptions, and careful interpretation of results. Topics covered: descriptive statistics, graphical displays of data, introduction to probability, expectations and variance of ramdom variables, confidence intervals and tests for means, differences of means, proportions, differences of proportions, chi-square tests for categorical variables, regression and
Public Health^Introduction to Probability and Statistics in Biology and Public Health Introduction to Probability and Statistics in Biology and Public Health Descriptive statistics, probability, probability distributions, point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing, chi-square, correlation and regression with biomedical applications.
Public Health^Introduction to Probability and Statistics in Public Health and Biology Introduction to Probability and Statistics in Public Health and Biology This course will provide an intense, fast-paced presentation of material contained in 142A-142B, which are offered during the regular academic year. Topics from 142A include descriptive statistics, probability, probability distributions, point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing, chi-square, correlation and regression with biomedical applications. The following topics from 142B will also be covered: analysis of variance, multiple regression, and nonparametric statistics.
Public Health^Introduction to Probability and Statistics in Biology and Public Health Introduction to Probability and Statistics in Biology and Public Health Descriptive statistics, probability, probability distributions, point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing, chi-square, correlation, and regression with biomedical applications.
Public Health^Introduction to SAS Programming Introduction to SAS Programming This course is intended to serve as an introduction to the SAS programming language for Windows in an applied, workshop environment. Emphasis is on data management and programming in a public health research setting. Topics include SAS language to compute, recode, label, and format variables as well as sort, subset, concatenate, and merge data sets. SAS statistical procedures will be used to compute univariate and bivariate summary statistics and tests, simple linear models,graphical plots, and
Public Health^Intermediate SAS Programming Intermediate SAS Programming Topics include data step flow control, looping and automated processing, implicit and explicit arrays, data simulation strategies, data set reconfiguration, use of SAS Macro variables, and writing simple SAS Macro programs.
Public Health^Statistical Analysis of Continuous Outcome Data Statistical Analysis of Continuous Outcome Data Regression models for continuous outcome data: least squares estimates and their properties, interpreting coefficients, prediction, comparing models, checking model assumptions, transformations, outliers, and influential points. Categorical explanatory variables: interaction and analysis of covariance, correlation and partial correlation. Appropriate graphical methods and statistical computing. Analysis of variance for one- and two-factor models: F tests, assumption checking, multiple comparisons.
Public Health^Introduction to Epidemiology and Human Disease Introduction to Epidemiology and Human Disease This course introduces epidemiological methods with the goal of teaching students to read critically and interpret published epidemiologic studies in humans. The course also exposes students to the epidemiology of diseases and conditions of current public health importance in the United States and internationally.
Public Health^Introduction to Environmental Health Sciences Introduction to Environmental Health Sciences The course will present the major human and natural activities that lead to release of hazardous materials into the environment as well as the causal links between chemical, physical, and biological hazards in the environment and their impact on human health. The basic principles of toxicology will be presented including dose-response relationships, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of chemicals. The overall role of environmental risks in the pattern of human disease, both nationally
Public Health^Introduction to Health Policy and Management Introduction to Health Policy and Management This course is intended to introduce students to health policy making and health care organizations in the United States. Students will be introduced to concepts from public policy, economics, organizational behavior, and political science. Students will also be introduced to current issues in U.S. health policy and the present organization of the U.S. health care system.
Public Health^Introduction to Community Health and Human Development Introduction to Community Health and Human Development This course will consist of a survey of the major social, cultural, and bio-behavioral patterns of health and well-being among individuals, families, neighborhoods, and communities. The course also will address the design, implementation, and evaluation of leading social and behavioral interventions and social policies designed to improve community and population health. This course will satisfy one of the core requirements for the undergraduate major in public health.
Public Health^Sociology of Health and Medicine Sociology of Health and Medicine This course covers several topics, including distributive justice in health care, the organization and politics of the health system, the correlates of health (by race, sex, class, income), pandemics (e.g., AIDS, Avian Flu and other influenzas, etc.), and the experience of illness and interactions with doctors and the medical system.
Public Health^Environmental Health and Development Environmental Health and Development The health effects of environmental alterations caused by development programs and other human activities in both developing and developed areas. Case studies will contextualize methodological information and incorporate a global perspective on environmentally mediated diseases in diverse populations. Topics include water management; population change; toxics; energy development; air pollution; climate change; chemical use, etc.
Public Health^Public Health Microbiology Public Health Microbiology Introduction to properties of microorganisms; their relationships with humans in causing infectious diseases and in maintaining health. With 162L, satisfies most requirements for a laboratory course in microbiology. May be taken without 162L.
Public Health^Public Health Microbiology Laboratory Public Health Microbiology Laboratory Laboratory to accompany 162A.
Public Health^Toxicology Toxicology Introduction to toxicology covering basic principles, dose-response, toxicity testing, chemical metabolism, mechanisms of toxicity, carcinogensis, interpretation of toxicological data for risk assessment, and target organ toxicity.
Public Health^Drinking Water and Health Drinking Water and Health The course covers monitoring, control and regulatory policy of microbial, chemical and radiological drinking water contaminants. Additional subjects include history and iconography of safe water, communicating risks to water consumers and a bottled water versus tap water taste test as part of the discussion on aesthetic water quality parameters. A field trip to a local water treatment plant in included.
Public Health^Advanced Toxicology Advanced Toxicology The application of toxicology to answer questions about safety and risk. Using a case-study approach, participants will learn how to interpret toxicological data and apply their knowledge to evaluating the risk presented by exposures to toxic chemicals, including drugs and environmental contaminants. Discussion of current topics of controversy in the field of toxicology.
Public Health^The Evolution of Human Sexuality The Evolution of Human Sexuality This course is built around an evolutionary perspective of the basis of human mating behavior and explores a variety of topics in human sexualtiy with the goal of helping us to understand ourselves and to understand and accept the behavior of others. The course takes examples from art, sociology, anatomy, anthropology, physiology, contemporary politics, and history to explore the richness of human sexual behavior and reproduction and the interaction between our biology and our culture.
Public Health^Poverty and Population Poverty and Population Globally one million more births than deaths occur every 112 hours, 90% in the poorest countries. Between 1960 and 1980, considerable attention was focused on rapid population growth. Afterwards, the attention has faded and investment in family planning evaporated. Family size among some of the poorest women is increasing. This course seeks to provide an understanding of the relationships between population growth, poverty, women's autonomy, and health. It explores the political "fashions"
Public Health^The History of Medicine, Public Health, and the Allied Health Sciences The History of Medicine, Public Health, and the Allied Health Sciences This course will examine the historical developments of social and scientific responses to human disease from their beginnings to their current roles as major forces in modern society. It will consider the evolution of diagnoses, treatment, and prevention of human morbidity and death from both a humanistic and scientific perspective. It invites pre-medical, pre-dental, and other students preparing for careers in public health, nursing, optometry, or the other health sciences, students interested
Public Health^Special Study for Honors Candidates in Public Health Special Study for Honors Candidates in Public Health Regular individual meetings with a faculty advisor culminating in a thesis at completion of H195B. H195A will concentrate primarily on researching a topic in public health. H195B will concentrate on development and writing up results in the form of a thesis. Students must enroll for both semesters of the sequence.
Public Health^Special Study for Honors Candidates in Public Health Special Study for Honors Candidates in Public Health Regular individual meetings with a faculty advisor culminating in a thesis at completion of H195B. H195A will concentrate primarily on researching a topic in public health. H195B will concentrate on development and writing up results in the form of a thesis. Students must enroll for both semesters of the sequence.
Public Health^Special Topics in Public Health Special Topics in Public Health Special topics in various fields of Public Health. Topics covered will vary from semester to semester and will be announced at the beginning of each term.
Public Health^Field Study in Public Health Field Study in Public Health Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of public health in off-campus organizations. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required.
Public Health^Current issues in Public Health Ethics: Research and Practice Current issues in Public Health Ethics: Research and Practice This course seeks to examine the ethical challenges inherent in public health practice, research, and policy. It covers a range of topics in ethics through cases representative of different public health dilemmas. The cases considered include treating homeless people with TB, rationing medical care in the United States, conducting HIV studies of maternal-fetal transmission in Africa, managed care policies and setting priorities, the deaf community and cochlear implants, and the societal implications
Public Health^Public Health Core Breadth Seminar Public Health Core Breadth Seminar This course is designed to provide students with a brief introduction to the field of public health and a basic understanding of the contributions of the environmental, behavioral, and management and policy sciences to the practice of public health. Central foci of the course include the interactions of biology, behavior and environment; the community and population-based nature of public health; health disparities; the relationships among health care access, cost and quality of care; the performance
Public Health^Health Policy and Management Breadth Course Health Policy and Management Breadth Course Health policy and management applies concepts from economics, organizational behavior, and political science to the structure, financing, and regulation of the public health and health care delivery systems. This breadth course is designed to give MPH students a basic set of competencies in the domains central to the field.
Public Health^Environmental Health Sciences Breadth Course Environmental Health Sciences Breadth Course This course will give an introduction to the major human and natural activities that lead to release of hazardous materials into the environment as well as the causal links between chemical, physical, and biological hazards in the environment and their impact on human health, including those related to climate change. The basic principles of toxicology, exposure assessment, risk assessment, risk perception, and environmental health policy will be presented. The overall role of environmental risks
Public Health^Health and Social Behavior Breadth Health and Social Behavior Breadth Health and social behavior uses theory and research from the behavioral sciences to explain the causes and health effects of salutary and risky behavior.
Public Health^Applied Public Health: Putting Theory Into Practice Applied Public Health: Putting Theory Into Practice This course trains students in applied public health through discussion, lectures, guest speakers, cases, and field trips. Students integrate learning from previous courses with work experience. Cases emphasize current national/global public health issues and practice. At course completion, students will be able to: Demonstrate the capacity to identify, research, and respond to real-life public health challenges; work effectively and efficiently in problem-solving groups; professionally present
Public Health^Health Policy and Management Breadth Course Health Policy and Management Breadth Course Health policy and management applies concepts from economics, organizational behavior, and political science to the structure, financing, and regulation of the public health and health care delivery systems. This breadth course is designed to give MPH students a basic set of competencies in the domains central to the field.
Public Health^Environmental Health Sciences Breadth Course Environmental Health Sciences Breadth Course This survey course covers the breadth of hazards from chemical, biological, and physical agents of concern to environmental health professionals. Lectures are presented by experts on particular topics that emphasize the activities involved in professional practice.
Public Health^Health and Social Behavior Breadth Health and Social Behavior Breadth Health and social behavior uses theory and research from the behavioral sciences to explain the causes and health effects of salutary and risky behavior.
Public Health^Public Health Interventions: Theory, Practice, and Research Public Health Interventions: Theory, Practice, and Research This course focuses on the primary factors that affect health and the interventions that can promote health. Students examine the determinants of health and the theory, history, types, ethics, and approaches of public health interventions. Community level interventions and multidisciplinary approaches receive special emphasis. The course stresses a rigorous critique of the outcomes of interventions and practical ways to improve them. Students take an active role in the design and conduct of the
Public Health^Community-Based Research and Interventions to Promote Health: Theory and Methods Community-Based Research and Interventions to Promote Health: Theory and Methods This course will delve into theoretical, methodological, and practical considerations in conducting physical and mental health interventions in diverse communities. Course emphases are: a) conceptualization and implementation of community interventions within ecological models and principles; b) logic models of intervention process and outcomes; c) comparing and integrating prevention science and community-based participatory approaches to intervention; d) strategies and challenges in replicating
Public Health^Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Health Status and Behavior Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Health Status and Behavior Focus on ethnic and cultural diversity in health behavior as a basis for public health programs. Consideration of U.S. ethnic minority groups and cultural groups in non-Western societies. Health status and behavior examined in context of relevant social and anthropological theory (social class, acculturation, political economy). Influence of socio-cultural background on concepts of health, illness, and health-seeking behavior. Implications for planning public health programs and policies.
Public Health^Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Health Status Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Health Status Focus on ethnic and cultural diversity in health behavior as a basis for public health programs. Consideration of U.S. ethnic minority groups and cultural groups in non-Western societies. Health status and behavior examined in context of relevant social and anthropological theory (social class, acculturation, political economy). Influence of socio-cultural background on concepts of health, illness, and health-seeking behavior. Implications for planning public health programs and policies.
Public Health^Advanced Alcohol Research Seminar Advanced Alcohol Research Seminar This course is an advanced alcohol research seminar in which presentations are made by alcohol research scientists nationally and internationally, as well as pre-and post-doctoral fellows, and focus on special topical areas related to psychosocial research in the field each semester. Areas covered include the epidemiology of drinking patterns and alcohol-related problems, issues related to treatment of alcohol-related problems, and health services research. Guest presentations are also provided
Public Health^Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Health Status Ethnic and Cultural Diversity in Health Status This course will examine ethnic and cultural differences in health status and behavior among historically marginalized communities in the United States, including African-Americans, Latinos, Asian-Americans, Native Americans, as well as sexual minorities and groups from non-Western societies.
Public Health^Theories of Health and Social Behavior Theories of Health and Social Behavior This course provides a survey of theoretical perspectives and their application in analyzing the behavioral, social, and cultural dimensions of community health problems. An emphasis is placed on critically examining the strengths and weaknesses of particular theories for understanding and addressing complex community health problems.
Public Health^Mass Communications in Public Health Mass Communications in Public Health Examines the role of mass communication in advancing public health goals. Reviews mass media theories in general, and theories of the news media in particular. Provides an in-depth understanding of media advocacy as a strategy for using news media and paid advertising to support policy initiatives at the local, state, and federal levels. Examples are drawn from a wide range of public health issues.
Public Health^Community Organizing and Community Building for Health Community Organizing and Community Building for Health This course emphasizes community organizing and community building as major approaches to creating healthy communities and fostering broader social change. It further examines the role of public health practitioners as change agents, stressing in particular the values and ethical issues that arise within the context of diverse and multicultural communities. Both advancement of theoretical knowledge and the development of skills in applying such knowledge in the areas of community organizing and
Public Health^Culture, Public Health Practice, and Eliminating Health Disparities: From Ideas to Action in the 21st Century Culture, Public Health Practice, and Eliminating Health Disparities: From Ideas to Action in the 21st Century Public health literature and practice make frequent reference to the terms culture, cultural competence, race, racism, ethnicity, and health disparities. Understanding these terms, their complex meanings and current application in public health practice is the subject matter of this course. By the end of the course students will be able to describe the concepts of culture, race, racism, ethnicity, cultural competence, cultural humility, health disparities and their use in public health theory and
Public Health^Research Advances in Health Disparities: Multidisciplinary Perspectives Research Advances in Health Disparities: Multidisciplinary Perspectives A critical overview of major theories and research findings on health disparities from a multidisciplinary perspective. It will focus on applying major theoretical approaches from Public Health, Anthropology, Social Welfare, and other disciplines to understand and address health disparities. These approaches include social determinants of health, lifecourse perspectives, health as a human right, stress and bio-social perspectives, social contruction of disease, and healthcare access and quality.
Public Health^Exploring Community Health Through Film Exploring Community Health Through Film This is a film series offered through Community Health & Human Development. We wish to put "community" back in CHHD by uniting the four program areas: Public Health Nutrition (PHN), Maternal & Child Health (MCH), Health & Social Behavior (HSB), and the Joint Medical Program (JMP) in a semester long breadth course. Six to seven films, recommended by faculty and students, will be screened each spring semester. There will be a panel discussion. Panels will consist of a faculty
Public Health^Mass Communication in Public Health Mass Communication in Public Health The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of how the media can be used to promote healthy public policy. The primary focus of the course is on "media advocacy." Students will learn how to frame issues from a public health perspective. In learning more about how the media operate, they will be better equipped to work effectively with journalists.
Public Health^Program Planning, Development, and Evaluation Program Planning, Development, and Evaluation Basic elements and considerations in planning health programs; case material will be drawn from health settings, with emphasis on multidisciplinary planning. Assessment of problems, setting goals and objectives, designing activities, implementation and evaluation.
Public Health^Program Planning, Development, and Evaluation Program Planning, Development, and Evaluation The purpose of this course is to provide students with the necessary skills to plan health programs. We will examine the principles and methods underlying program planning. Multi-disciplinary, collaborative planning will be emphasized. Program planning applications will be emphasized throughout the course by using case studies, specific illustrations, and online planning exercises.
Public Health^PH Nutrition Core Course: Critical Issues in Public Health Nutrition PH Nutrition Core Course: Critical Issues in Public Health Nutrition This course will introduce first-year public health nutrition and other MPH students to critical issues in public health nutrition, and provide them with critical thinking skills to analyze these issues using scientific literature. Students will build group facilitation skills, library research skills, and professional advocacy skills. Second-year public health nutrition students and a panel of PHN graduates will speak to the students about valuable skills and competencies needed for work in public
Public Health^Nutrition Status, Physical Activity, and Chronic Conditions Nutrition Status, Physical Activity, and Chronic Conditions Concepts, methods, and limitations in the determination of nutritional status; application of methodologies for determining and interpreting data; technical, social, and political implications of nutritional assessments and related community needs.
Public Health^Food and Nutrition Policies and Programs Food and Nutrition Policies and Programs This course examines the historical origins of food and nutrition improvement programs in the United States, including the political and administrative conditions that led to the development of these programs. It also examines the goals, design, operations, and effectiveness of some of these programs: Food Stamp Program, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the National School Lunch Program, the School Breakfast Program, Head Start, the Child Care Food
Public Health^Nutritional Epidemiology Nutritional Epidemiology This course develops the ability to read published nutritional epidemiology research critically. Basic research methods in nutritional epidemiology will be reviewed, and issues in design, analysis, and interpretation unique to nutritional epidemiology will be addressed. This will be accomplished by readings and study questions, lecture/discussions, and problem sets.
Public Health^Food and Nutrition Programs and Policies in Developing Countries Food and Nutrition Programs and Policies in Developing Countries This course will use a case-based approach to examine the ways in which governments in developing countries design and implement policies and programs that affect food production and access to safe, affordable, and nutritionally adequate diets. In the course we will analyze, assess and evaluate ways to take action to ameliorate the major nutritional problems facing vulnerable populations in developing countries.
Public Health^Public Health Aspects of Maternal and Child Nutrition Public Health Aspects of Maternal and Child Nutrition Nutrition plays a vital role in human reproduction and child growth and development. This course provides an overview of the major nutritional issues faced by women of childbearing age, infants, children, and adolescents in the United States and around the world, with selected topics explored in greater depth. Nutritional problems are multi-factorial and occur at multiple levels and we will study them from a variety of viewpoints (biological, pyschological, socio-cultural, economic, political, and
Public Health^Public Health Aspects of Nutritional Care: In Hospital Setting Public Health Aspects of Nutritional Care: In Hospital Setting The nutritional care of people with major diseases is reviewed, observed, and practiced in various Bay Area hospitals. Current nutritional therapies of heart disease, cancer, diabetes, renal diseases, liver diseases, gastro-intestinal disorders, and trauma are reviewed. The organization and delivery of nutritional care services in hospital settings.
Public Health^Public Health Aspects of Nutritional Care: In Selected Facilities Public Health Aspects of Nutritional Care: In Selected Facilities The organization and delivery of nutrition care services facilities such as health departments, ambulatory health care settings, child care and education facilities, skilled nursing facilities, and senior nutrition programs. Included are nutrition education and counseling, food service, nutrition assessments, consultation, and training.
Public Health^Maternal and Child Health Specialty Area Core Course Maternal and Child Health Specialty Area Core Course The core course in maternal and child health will provide an integrated approach to issues, programs, and policies in the field of maternal and child health. The following concepts will be explored and addressed in depth: 1) the foundation of maternal and child health, including an overview of the field, history, and foundation of MCH practice and programs, and attention to financing of these programs; 2) MCH data sources, uses of data, and related issues; and 3) policies and practices in MCH (including
Public Health^Adolescent Health Adolescent Health This course is designed to provide an understanding of the epidemiology and etiology of critical health issues among adolescents, including complex contextual influences and individual processes related to this dynamic period of life. Each adolescent health outcome will be considered in light of developmental issues related to the pubertal transition and multilevel influences that contribute to adolescent health and well-being, including 1) biological, 2) cognitive, 3) behavioral, and 4) social-culture
Public Health^Needs Assessment in Maternal and Child Health Needs Assessment in Maternal and Child Health The purpose of this course is to provide a conceptual and practical understanding of health needs and the strategies that can be used for conducting needs assessments in maternal and child health. The course is aimed at students who anticipate working in situations that involve measuring health problems in communities, planning for health services, and advocating or making decisions about the distribution of community health resources.
Public Health^Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology Research methods and issues in perinatal and reproductive epidemiology with emphasis on methods of study. Specific adverse reproductive outcomes, risk factors, and prevalence will be discussed. Will include critiques of published studies and techniques of proposal writing.
Public Health^International Maternal and Child Health International Maternal and Child Health Assessment of health status of mothers, infants, and children on worldwide basis; special emphasis on problems, policies, and programs affecting MCH and family planning in developing countries.
Public Health^Migration and Health: A U.S.-Mexico Binational Perspective Migration and Health: A U.S.-Mexico Binational Perspective Building upon expertise on migration from Mexico to the U.S., the goal of this course is to strengthen students' knowledge and understanding of public health issues of immigrants and the effects that migration has on the health/disease issues of communities in the countries of origin, transit, and destination. Students will explore successful public health intervention programs targeting these populations.
Public Health^Global Health Core Course Global Health Core Course This is a graduate level survey course on selected topics in international health designed to introduce students to key areas of the specialty. The course will review the main contributors to the global burden of disease and discuss current interventions and possible approaches for the future. The primary goal of the course is to transfer knowledge and experiences that will prepare public health students to evaluate international health projects and better prepare themselves for international health
Public Health^Private Sector Health Services in Developing Countries Private Sector Health Services in Developing Countries This course will serve students intending to conduct research, policy work, or program implementation in health services in developing countries. Topics covered will include definition and typology of private sector in various countries, theories of private sector regulation, motivation, and research. Methodological and practical issues in measuring provider importance, quality, and in influencing the activities of actors in private health delivery will be explored from viewpoints of both research
Public Health^Family Planning, Population Change, and Health Family Planning, Population Change, and Health Course examines the determinants of family size and the role played by contraception, voluntary sterilization, and induced abortion in the transition to small families. It looks at the factors controlling access to fertility regulation in developed and developing countries and discusses the factors that have made for successful family programs as well as those that have generated controversy. The course looks at the relationship between family planning and the health of women and children and at
Public Health^Eat.Think.Design Eat.Think.Design This course is a team-oriented, project-based course designed around the case-based and learning-by-doing models. The critical elements of the human-centered design process – discovering, ideating, and prototyping – are learned through didactic sessions and an 8-week project students work on in teams. Working with community partners on a public health issue related to food, the student teams apply human-centered design skills to the problem, and design and pilot (when possible) a solution with and
Public Health^Biological Embedding of Social Factors Biological Embedding of Social Factors This is an interdisciplinary course which will adopt a broad-based ecological perspective of health and behavior. This class will emphasize the interconnected and multidirectional relationships between biology, behavior, and the social environment. This course will be conducted as a seminar series (with a focus on biological processes). We will investigate the assertion that biological, psychological, and social processes interact over a lifetime to influence health and vulnerability to disease
Public Health^Aging and Public Health Aging and Public Health The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of research, practice, and policy in the area of aging and public health. Topics will include the epidemiology of aging; race, class, gender, and aging; nutrition and the elderly; and current health policy surrounding aging. Themes running throughout the course and linking a number of the topics covered will include the diversity of the elderly; the importance of co-morbidity and functional health status in this population group; the family and
Public Health^Biological and Public Health Aspects of Alzheimer's Disease Biological and Public Health Aspects of Alzheimer's Disease This course will survey the field of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from a biological and public health perspective by reading original research papers in the fields of medicine, neuroscience, and epidemiology. The course will begin with a historical survey of the concept of AD, followed by a description of clinical and neuropathological features. Subsequent classes will cover the genetics and molecular biology of the disease, as well as biomarkers, epidemiology, risk factors, treatment, development of
Public Health^Evaluation of Health and Social Programs Evaluation of Health and Social Programs The study of concepts, methods, rationale, and uses of evaluation research as they apply to health and social programs.
Public Health^Evaluation of Health and Social Programs Evaluation of Health and Social Programs This course provides an overview of the concepts and methods of program evaluation. The course will be useful to those concerned with evaluation of health and social service programs. Participants will develop the critical skills necessary to assess the quality of evaluation research projects, to apply technical skills in professional practice, and to develop evaluation plans for a variety of heath and social programs.
Public Health^Advanced Methods: Qualitative Research Advanced Methods: Qualitative Research An overview of the theoretical and methodological components involved in various aspects of qualitative research.
Public Health^Community-Based Participatory Research in Public Health Community-Based Participatory Research in Public Health The goal of this seminar is to provide doctoral and advanced master's degree students with an understanding of theories, principles, and strategies of community-based participatory research (CBPR) and related traditions. The advantages and limitations of this approach, skills necessary for effective application, and theory-driven case studies will be explored. Students undertaking a service-learning project applying CBPR may receive a 4th unit.
Public Health^Social and Behavioral Health Research: Introduction to Survey Methods Social and Behavioral Health Research: Introduction to Survey Methods This course provides students with a thorough tool kit for designing survey questionnaires and for implementing telephone, face-to-face, and mail surveys. The three-hour weekly class sessions are designed to convey practical knowledge, with a case study approach used to complement each topical lecture. An SPSS laboratory is also given each semester. The course is an elective for Health and Social Behavior students, and many from the multidisciplinary program and other tracks in the school (including
Public Health^Introduction to Qualitative Methods in Public Health Research Introduction to Qualitative Methods in Public Health Research This course is designed to familiarize students who have little or no experience in conducting qualitative research with the perspectives, methods, and techniques of a vast and contentious tradition of research. The course will cover some of the methods of data collections used in the conduct of qualitative inquiries, the analysis of textural data, the write-up of findings from qualitative studies, and the development of a qualitative research proposal. While learning about qualitative methods,
Public Health^Social and Behavioral Health Research: Introduction to Survey Methods Social and Behavioral Health Research: Introduction to Survey Methods This course provides students with a thorough tool kit for designing survey questionnaires and for implementing telephone, face-to-face, mail, and internet surveys. The two three-hour, weekly class sessions are designed to convey practical knowledge with a case study approach used to complement the topical lectures. An SPSS laboratory also is given each semester.
Public Health^Health Policy Decision-Making Health Policy Decision-Making Introduction to federal-level health policy and analysis of government capacity in addressing major issues in health policy. The course explores structural impediments to reform in the US, regulatory decision-making -- particularly decision-making under conditions of uncertainty, and basic tools of policy analysis. Students will apply these tools in a seminar paper that analyzes a proposed or existing health policy or program.
Public Health^Health Risk Assessment, Regulation, and Policy Health Risk Assessment, Regulation, and Policy This course introduces the basic scientific components of environmental and occupational health risk assessment and describes the policy context in which decisions to manage environmental health risks are made. The course presents the quantitative methods used to assess the human health risks associated with exposure to toxic chemicals, focusing on the four major components of risk assessment: hazard identification, dose-response assessment, exposure assessment, and risk characterization. Students
Public Health^Health Policy Advocacy Health Policy Advocacy A graduate seminar in practice-based means to advocate for health policy. This course focuses on data based strategies using persuasive written and oral communication skills necessary to preserve and/or improve the health status of populations. Students will develop research, organization, and coalition-building skills necessary to produce an effective advocacy campaign. The course identifies the roles of those involved in the making of policy and demonstrates the use of appropriate channels and
Public Health^Global Health Policy Global Health Policy This course will provide an intensive introduction to current topics in international health policy. Students in the course will become familiar with the major actors, institutions, and regimes that shape international health policy. The course will also introduce students to theories of governance as they apply to international settings and evaluate the relative roles of state actors, NGOs, and international regimes in producing key health policy outcomes. The course will cover several current
Public Health^Health Workforce and Public Policy Health Workforce and Public Policy This course focuses on three interrelated issues: How do we determine when we have too many or too few health care workers to provide high quality and cost effective care? What are the factors that determine the supply and distribution of health care workers? What are the methods that can be used to increase the performance and productivity of health care workers? We will review recent evidence on the supply, quality, and cost of the health workforce in California, the U.S., and globally. Approaches
Public Health^Mental Health Policies, Programs, and Services Mental Health Policies, Programs, and Services This course provides a foundation for understanding mental illness and mental health services and the evolution and current state of our thinking about them. It presents the most frequent varieties of mental illness and addresses their frequency of occurrence, and it addresses the social disability from mental illness and the societal response to mental illness. It also considers treatments, services, effectiveness, quality of care, and financing, as well as considering financing, legal issues,
Public Health^Understanding and Overcoming Health Care Disparities Understanding and Overcoming Health Care Disparities In this class, we will construct a framework to formulate explanations for health care disparities and to construct responses that have the potential for a policy-oriented, and therefore widespread, response. Taking advantage of selected developments in social science theory and research that can provide insight into how health care disparities come about, we will draw from anthropological and psychological theories of cultural orientation, cultural framing of problems, and cultural identity; as
Public Health^Health Care Technology Policy Health Care Technology Policy The course examines the public policy institutions and processes influencing innovation, regulation, and payment for biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. Topics include technology transfer and patent law, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review for safety and efficacy, insurance coverage policy at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), coverage, payment, and benefit by private insurers for new technology, and cost-effectiveness analysis. Special topics vary from
Public Health^Introduction to the Health Care System Introduction to the Health Care System An intensive introduction that will provide students with an understanding of the structure, financing, and special properties of health services delivery. The course will analyze the larger management and policy issues that drive reform efforts.
Public Health^Cases in Health Management Cases in Health Management This is an advanced course in health management. It is intended for master's degree students in the Division of Health Policy and Management who have already completed their field residency. The course consists of analyses and discussions of cases highlighting complex managerial issues in health care delivery, E-health, biotechnology, and other health-related organizations. The cases used in the class will provide the student with real-world management problems, choices, and information. The key
Public Health^Strategic Management and the Organization of Health Services Strategic Management and the Organization of Health Services The overall purpose of this course is to assist the student in managing health care organizations from a strategic perspective. This is accomplished by systematically addressing systemwide, organization-wide, group- and individual-level issues in strategy formulation, content, implementation, and performance. Emphasis is placed upon the manager's role in simultaneously taking into account a wide variety of internal and external factors to improve organization and system performance in meeting the
Public Health^Foundations of Health Policy and Management Foundations of Health Policy and Management This course is designed as a first semester seminar for master's students in the Division of Health Policy and Management. The purposes of this course are fourfold: 1) to provide an overview of the U.S. medical and health care systems; 2) to provide an introduction to basic concepts and competencies in health policy analysis and health management; 3) to provide internship preparation and career development activities; and 4) to provide opportunities to develop relationships with 1st- and 2nd-year
Public Health^Capstone Seminar in Health Policy and Management Capstone Seminar in Health Policy and Management This course is an integrative seminar that builds on the core curriculum requirements of the school and HPM specialty. Participants are master's degree students advancing to candidacy. After sharing their internship experiences and the impact on career decisions, the students are required to draw on situations from their internship to demonstrate what they have learned by leading fellow seminar participants in facilitated discussions, culminating in a specific management recommendation or policy
Public Health^Effective Public Health Negotiations Effective Public Health Negotiations The ability to secure enduring agreements is an essential skill for a successful public health leader. This course integrates lecture and experiential components to expose students to major theories and specific tactics that underlie effective negotiating. It offers the opportunity to develop the skills needed to build awareness of personal styles. Students will be evaluated on their understanding of relevant theory and their ability to apply it in individual and team-based negotiations.
Public Health^Strategic Management and the Health Sector Strategic Management and the Health Sector The overall purpose of this course is to assist the student in managing healthcare organizations from a strategic perspective. This is accomplished by systemically addressing systemwide, organization-wide, group- and individual-level issues in strategy formulation, content, implementation, and performance. The course will cover a wide variety of health care organizations including physican group practices, health systems, hospitals, HMOs, suppliers, pharmacoutical and biotech companies.
Public Health^Health Care Organizations and Management Health Care Organizations and Management Introduction to health administration, focusing on theories of management, organizations, and environments as they relate to the administration of health services. Cases, simulation, and structured experiences will be used to tie theory to practice.
Public Health^Advanced Health Care Organizations and Environments Advanced Health Care Organizations and Environments This course examines major theories and frameworks for analyzing health care organizations. Emphasis is given to the application and testing of theories in the health care sector. Theories to be examined include bureaucracy, contingency theory, culture and climate, resource dependence, institutional theory, and theories of change and innovation. The seminar will rely on extensive student participation.
Public Health^Health Care Organizations and Management Health Care Organizations and Management Today, the health care system consists of a mixture of organizational forms that plan, regulate, and deliver medical care and other health services. The objective of this course is to consider 1) the structure of these organizations and the factors that affect their performance, as well as their growth and decline and 2) the role that health care managers play in the organizations in which they work.
Public Health^Legal Basis for Health Care Delivery Legal Basis for Health Care Delivery This is a course for nonlawyers in legal issues in the organization and delivery of health care, including regulation, fraud and abuse, physician arrangements, Medicare, managed care, privacy, malpractice, patient dumping, health care organizations, contracts, etc. Students will gain an appreciation of the interaction of law, policy, and health care delivery. Case studies, including an extended contract negotiation and medical-legal cases, will focus on the application and communication of legal
Public Health^Health Economics Health Economics This course introduces students to the economics of health and health care. In addition to familarizing students with the language and tools of health economics, the course will provide an overview of key institutional features of the health economy as well as important research findings in the field. These will be used to evaluate the economic logic and incentives in competing proposals for health care reform.
Public Health^Microeconomics of Health Care Policy Microeconomics of Health Care Policy An economic and policy analysis of the health care system. It examines integration of the health care delivery system and the impact of competition and regulation on providers and patients. Alternative models of health care system reform are presented and analyzed.
Public Health^Public Health and the Economy Public Health and the Economy An introduction to the literature that suggests that the performance of a regional economy affects the health of the population it supports. Controversies in the theoretical and empirical literature are discussed. The implications of the work for public health practice are discussed.
Public Health^Global Health Economics Global Health Economics This class is a survey of different health care systems in western and eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, Canada, Japan, Taiwan, and China. Other countries will be added to meet the interests of students. The course examines the structure and financing of the health system in each country and assesses the effectiveness, efficacy, and equity of each systems. Students will make a presentation on a country's health system and write a paper.
Public Health^Health Care Finance Health Care Finance This course covers finance and strategic financial management in the health services and products industry, including provider organizations, insurance firms, and biopharmaceutical and medical device companies. Cases are used to apply the financial analysis and planning skills learned in the course. Topic areas include financial statement analysis, pricing and service decisions, debt financing, venture capital, and private equity, IPO and public equity markets, risk and return, capital budgeting
Public Health^Public Health and the Law Public Health and the Law This is an introductory course for nonlawyers in selected aspects of the law relating to public health. Major attention is paid to fundamental legal principles and legal reasoning, recurring legal issues confronted by health professionals, and the use of law to advance a public health agenda. Emphasis is placed on giving students tools to use when they encounter law-related problems in their professional careers. The course is intended for students in all divisions of the School of Public Health.
Public Health^Advanced Health Politics Advanced Health Politics Critical analysis of selected issues in health policy. Topics include political ideology and health policy, interest group politics in health, Marxist and materialist interpretation of health policy, and the politics of health care technology, implementation, bureaucracy, and health professions.
Public Health^Analytic Methods for Health Policy and Management Analytic Methods for Health Policy and Management This course provides an overview of analytic methods that Master's students in health policy and management should be familiar with. Topics include linear regression, limited dependent variable models such as logit, design, and analysis of complex surveys (with weighted and clustered sampling), and quasi-experimental causal analysis. The course complements 245, with an emphasis on enabling nonstatisticians to interpret and critique applications in the HPM literature.
Public Health^Health Care Operations and Management Methods Health Care Operations and Management Methods This course will introduce students to basic operations research/management (OR/OM) methods and discuss how they can be applied in health care delivery settings. The class uses a problem-based, participatory approach to learning. Data management and analysis are conducted using Excel and STATA. Topics include process reengineering and job redesign, productivity and performance management, linear programming and operational decision-making, staffing and job scheduling, patient flow analysis, queuing
Public Health^Doctoral Seminar in Public Health Applications of Time Series Analysis Doctoral Seminar in Public Health Applications of Time Series Analysis An introduction to time-domain analyses of potential interest to public health researchers and practitioners. Applications in forecasting and hypothesis testing will be demonstrated.
Public Health^Healthy Cities Healthy Cities Exploration of common origins of urban planning and public health, from why and how the fields separated and strategies to reconnect them, to addressing urban health inequities in the 21st century. Inquiry to influences of urban population health, analysis of determinants, and roles that city planning and public health agencies - at local and international level - have in research, and action aimed at improving urban health. Measures, analysis, and design of policy strategies are explored.
Public Health^Green Chemistry: An Interdisciplonary Approach to Sustainability Green Chemistry: An Interdisciplonary Approach to Sustainability Meeting the challenge of global sustainability will require interdisciplinary approaches to research and education, as well as the integration of this new knowledge into society, policymaking, and business. Green Chemistry is an intellectual framework created to meet these challenges and guide technological development. It encourages the design and production of safer and more sustainable chemicals and products.
Public Health^Impact Evaluation for Health Professionals Impact Evaluation for Health Professionals This course will review the methods for the design and analysis of impact evaluations relevant to health professionals, especially those working in low and middle-income countries. The class will emphasize the challenges involved in identifying the causal relationship between a program or project and its outcomes while providing students with some experience in drafting a proposal that might be submitted to a funding agency for support of an impact evaluation. For doctoral students the course may
Public Health^U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Drug Development, and Public Health U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Drug Development, and Public Health The process and principles of drug development will be discussed in the context of the FDA's mandate and reach (basic science, pre-clinical and clinical research, policy, law, and public health), emphasizing the impact of public health emergencies such as HIV on evolution of regulatory policies.
Public Health^Introduction to Modern Biostatistical Theory and Practice Introduction to Modern Biostatistical Theory and Practice Course covers major topics in general statistical theory, with a focus on statistical methods in epidemiology. The course provides a broad theoretical framework for understanding the properties of commonly-used and more advanced methods. Emphasis is on estimation in nonparametric models in the context of contingency tables, regression (e.g., linear, logistic), density estimation and more. Topics include maximum likelihood and loss-based estimation, asymptotic linearity/normality, the delta method
Public Health^Biostatistical Methods: Survival Analysis and Causality Biostatistical Methods: Survival Analysis and Causality Analysis of survival time data using parametric and non-parametric models, hypothesis testing, and methods for analyzing censored (partially observed) data with covariates. Topics include marginal estimation of a survival function, estimation of a generalized multivariate linear regression model (allowing missing covariates and/or outcomes), estimation of a multiplicative intensity model (such as Cox proportional hazards model) and estimation of causal parameters assuming marginal structural models.
Public Health^Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine This course provides an introduction to computational statistics, with emphasis on statistical methods and software for addressing high-dimensional inference problems in biology and medicine. Topics include numerical and graphical data summaries, loss-based estimation (regression, classification, density estimation), smoothing, EM algorithm, Markov chain Monte-Carlo, clustering, multiple testing, resampling, hidden Markov models, in silico experiments.
Public Health^Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine II Biostatistical Methods: Computational Statistics with Applications in Biology and Medicine II This course and Pb Hlth C240C/STAT C245C provide an introduction to computational statistics with emphasis on statistical methods and software for addressing high-dimensional inference problems that arise in current biological and medical research. The courses also discusses statistical computing resources, with emphasis on the R language and environment (www.r-project.org). Programming topics to be discussed include: data structures, functions, statistical models, graphical procedures, designing
Public Health^Statistical Genomics Statistical Genomics Genomics is one of the fundamental areas of research in the biological sciences and is rapidly becoming one of the most important application areas in statistics. This is the first course of a two-semester sequence, which provides an introduction to statistical and computational methods for the analysis of meiosis, population genetics, and genetic mapping. The second course is Statistics C245F/Public Health C240F. The courses are primarily intended for graduate students and advanced undergraduate
Public Health^Statistical Genomics Statistical Genomics Genomics is one of the fundamental areas of research in the biological sciences and is rapidly becoming one of the most important application areas in statistics. The first course in this two-semester sequence is Public Health C240E/Statistics C245E. This is the second course, which focuses on sequence analysis, phylogenetics, and high-throughput microarray and sequencing gene expression experiments. The courses are primarily intended for graduate students and advanced undergraduate students from
Public Health^Statistical Analysis of Categorical Data Statistical Analysis of Categorical Data Biostatistical concepts and modeling relevant to the design and analysis of multifactor population-based cohort and case-control studies, including matching. Measures of association, causal inference, confounding interaction. Introduction to binary regression, including logistic regression.
Public Health^Biometrical Data Analysis--Pathological Incomplete Data and Pattern Recognition Biometrical Data Analysis--Pathological Incomplete Data and Pattern Recognition Survey of classical methods; mixture, clustered, grouped, incomplete, Cox-model, and truncated data simulation and analysis.
Public Health^Biometrical Data Analysis--Model Free Curve Estimation Biometrical Data Analysis--Model Free Curve Estimation Generalized histograms and Gram-Charlier expansions; series inclusion and stopping rules, multiplier and weighting techniques, nonparametric regression, variance reduction, smoothing, and equiprobability contour estimation methods and other graphical methods.
Public Health^Longitudinal Data Analysis Longitudinal Data Analysis The course covers the statistical issues surrounding estimation of effects using data on subjects followed through time. The course emphasizes a regression model approach and discusses disease incidence modeling and both continuous outcome data/linear models and longitudinal extensions to nonlinear models (e.g., logistic and Poisson). The primary focus is from the analysis side, but mathematical intuition behind the procedures will also be discussed. The statistical/mathematical material includes
Public Health^Special Topics in Biostatistics Special Topics in Biostatistics Current issues in biostatistics research. Topics will vary from term to term depending on student demand and faculty availability. Possible topics are bioassay, meta-analysis, compartmental models, biostatistical consulting, covariance structure models, bootstrap and jackknife methods, artificial intelligence techniques in biostatistics.
Public Health^Information Systems in Public Health Information Systems in Public Health An introduction to new information systems, such as the Internet and interactive television, and how they may be used to improve human health. The course has three objectives: first, to familiarize students with new information technologies; second, to review how these technologies will be used by public health professionals, consumers, health care providers, and others; and third, to study related ethical and legal issues such as privacy, access, and liability. The course is designed for people
Public Health^Special Topics in Biostatistics: Adaptive Designs Special Topics in Biostatistics: Adaptive Designs This course examines the theory and statistical methods for analyzing data generated by adaptive group sequential designs. It also considers the construction of targeted adaptive group sequential designs that adapt in a way that is optimal for the estimation of a particular target feature of the data generating experiment (i.e., causal effect of the treatment). Topics to be covered include: sequential testing, adaptive sample size, martingale estimating functions to construct estimators, targeted
Public Health^Introduction to Multivariate Statistics Introduction to Multivariate Statistics The following topics are discussed in the context of biomedical and biological application: multiple regression, loglinear models, discriminant analysis, principal components. Instruction in statistical computing is given in the laboratory session.
Public Health^Censored Longitudinal Data and Causality Censored Longitudinal Data and Causality This course examines optimal robust methods for statistical inference regarding causal and non-causal parameters based on longitudinal data in the presence of informative censoring and informative confounding of treatment. Models presented include multivariate regression models, multiplicative intensity models for counting processes, and causal models such as marginal structural models and structural nested models. Methods will be illustrated with data sets of practical interest and analyzed in
Public Health^Statistical/Computer Analysis Using R Statistical/Computer Analysis Using R The material presented will focus on learning the programming language R, which will be taught in the context of reviewing and introducing a number of statistical methods. Four topic areas will be presented focusing on implementation; these are descriptive methods, simulation techniques, linear models, and estimation. The goal of the course is to provide a package of statistical techniques along with new and advanced computer tools for implementation.
Public Health^Epidemiologic Methods I Epidemiologic Methods I Principles and methods of epidemiology: study design, selection, and definition of cases and controls; sampling, data collection, analysis, and inference. Discussion session provides an opportunity to apply methods to problem sets and to discuss issues presented in lectures.
Public Health^Epidemiologic Methods II Epidemiologic Methods II This course is intended as an intermediate level course in the field of epidemiology. Topics include causal inference; measurement of disease rates; inferential reasoning; and research study designs including ecologic, case-control, cohort, intervention trials, and meta-analytic designs (potential sources of bias, confounding, and effect modification in each research design are explored in depth); topics in clinical epidemiology including the use of likelihood ratios, receiver operator curves, and
Public Health^Epidemiologic Theory Epidemiologic Theory This course is a continuation of 250B. The course covers many of the same topics as 250B but explores them in greater breadth and depth. Topics that follow from 250B include causal inference; the interrelation between measures of disease frequency; the theory that underlies case-control studies and the practical issues that relate to implementation of case-control studies; and further exploration of the quantitative aspects of bias, confounding, propensity scores, and measurement error. An introduction
Public Health^Epidemiologic Methods I Epidemiologic Methods I This introductory graduate course presents the principles and methods of epidemiology, including descriptive and analytic approaches to assessing the distributions of health, disease, and injury in the population and factors that influence those distributions. Through the combination of lecture, readings, and discussion of problem sets, students without prior coursework in epidemiology will acquire the core competencies in epidemiology expected of all MPH graduates.
Public Health^Practicum in Epidemiologic Methods I Practicum in Epidemiologic Methods I A two-semester sequence intended for students in the Epidemiology/Biostatistics MPH program and other qualified graduate students. This is a practicum course in research design data analysis. Students select a research question and learn practical skills to analyze a large database in order to answer the research question. The course teaches use of CMS and SAS in performing univariate analyses; students also learn critically to review scientific literature. Students are required to complete computer
Public Health^Causal Inference and Meta-Analysis in Epidemiology Causal Inference and Meta-Analysis in Epidemiology This course will review the theoretical aspects of causal inference, literature review, and meta-analysis, but its focus will be more on the practical aspects of these topics that are not commonly found in textbooks or presented in classes on epidemiologic theory. It is hoped that the student develops the day-to-day skills necessary to complete and present a well-documented, accurate, and thorough review of epidemiologic literature.
Public Health^Applied Epidemiology Using R Applied Epidemiology Using R This is an intensive, one-semester introduction to the R programming language for applied epidemiology. R is a freely available, multi-platform (Mac OS, Linux, and Windows, etc.), versatile, and powerful program for statistical computing and graphics (http://www.r-project.org). This course will focus on core basics of organizing, managing, and manipulating epidemiologic data; basic epidemiologic applications; introduction to R programming; and basic R graphics.
Public Health^Epidemiological Analysis Epidemiological Analysis This course consists of two distinct components: (1) advanced treatment of epidemiologic methods: matched data, spatial analysis, logistic and Poisson regression models; (2) survival analysis: Kaplan-Meier estimation, survival distributions, parametric and semi-parametric survival analysis models. Students are encouraged to concurrently enroll in 248L which carries the prerequisite of a working knowledge of the statistical computing language R.
Public Health^Applied Sampling and Survey Design and Analysis Applied Sampling and Survey Design and Analysis This course will cover the basic principles and methods of sampling and survey design. The weekly lecture will cover the principles of sampling and include a discussion of various case studies. The computer laboratory will consist of exercises that develop skills for using computers to draw samples and to solve sampling problems. The material covered in the computer laboratory session will generally correspond to the topics covered in the preceding class meetings.
Public Health^Modeling the Dynamics of Infectious Disease Processes Modeling the Dynamics of Infectious Disease Processes This course will cover the basic tools required to both critically read modeling papers and to develop and use models as research tools. Emphasis will be placed on using models to understand infectious disease processes and to evaluate potential control strategies. The class meeting will consist of both lecture material covering conceptual issues and a computer lab to apply these concepts using standard infectious disease models.
Public Health^Intervention Trial Design Intervention Trial Design Students learn (through lectures and graded student presentations and projects) to design clinical and population-level field trials. Topics: formulation of a testable hypothesis; identification of appropriate populations; blinding (including indices for assessment); randomization (including traditional and adaptive randomization algorithms); sample-size estimation; recruitment strategies; data collection systems; quality control and human subjects responsibilities; adverse effects monitoring; improving
Public Health^Introduction to Causal Inference Introduction to Causal Inference This course presents a general framework for causal inference using directed acyclic graphs, non-parametric structural equation models, and counterfactuals. Marginal structural models and causal effect estimation using inverse probability of treatment weighting, G-computation, and targeted maximum likelihood are introduced. In two-part presentations, students will define and implement research questions.
Public Health^Advanced Topics in Causal Inference Advanced Topics in Causal Inference The course will be conducted as a seminar with readings and discussions on a range of more advanced topics. We will cover case-control designs; longitudinal causal models, identifiability and estimation; direct and indirect effects; dynamic regimes (individualized treatment rules); approaches for diagnosing and responding to violations in the positivity assumption. Additional topics may include stochastic interventions, community-based interventions, and Collaborative-TMLE. There will also be some
Public Health^Topics in Disease Surveillance Topics in Disease Surveillance Ways of doing surveillance for infectious and non-infectious diseases; how the reasons for doing surveillance determine the system selected; and how to evaluate whether or not a given surveillance is providing the data needed to meet various goals. The impact of various biases on the conclusions derived from surveillance data will be explored.
Public Health^Epidemiology and Control of Infectious Diseases Epidemiology and Control of Infectious Diseases A discussion of major infectious diseases with emphasis on disease surveillance, investigative procedures, and prevention programs. Emphasis is on current problems in health agencies at a state, national, and international level.
Public Health^Foundations of Public Health Foundations of Public Health The seminar will introduce core disciplines and concepts in public health, using a case-based, integrated approach. Examples of cases discussed include: respiratory disease and air pollution; tobacco control and prevention of smoking-related conditions; disease elimination or eradication via childhood immunization; environmental control and prevention of schistosomiasis; behavior change and prevention of HIV/AIDS; and novel economic approaches to improving healthcare delivery to impoverished groups.
Public Health^Behavior and Policy Science in HIV Treatment and Prevention Behavior and Policy Science in HIV Treatment and Prevention This course will integrate various social science disciplines and apply these perspectives to problems of HIV treatment and prevention, particularly in the developing world. Throughout the academic term, students will apply knowledge of behavioral science, epidemiology, quantitative and qualitative methods in the analysis of developing and evaluating HIV-related treatment and prevention interventions, including policy interventions. Course requirements will include the preparation of a major paper
Public Health^Ethical Challenges in Public Health Interventions: Catastrophic and Routine Ethical Challenges in Public Health Interventions: Catastrophic and Routine This course aims to enhance course participants' ability to articulate and examine ethical issues surrounding responses to public health/healthcare challenges whether routine or during catastrophe. Discussions will be based on presentations and assigned readings for the class, and with an expectation that students will incorporate their own diverse views and approaches to moral and logistical challenges.
Public Health^Foundations of Public Health Foundations of Public Health The seminar will introduce core disciplines and concepts in public health, using a case-based, integrated approach. Examples of cases discussed include: respiratory disease and air pollution; tobacco control and prevention of smoking-related conditions; disease elimination or eradication via childhood immunization; environmental control and prevention of schistosomiasis; behavior change and prevention of HIV/AIDS; and novel economic approaches to improving healthcare delivery to impoverished groups.
Public Health^Sexual Health Promotion and Sexually Transmitted Disease Control Sexual Health Promotion and Sexually Transmitted Disease Control This seminar will explore current issues and controversies in public health approaches to sexual health promotion and STD control with a focus on pragmatic skills including program development and evaluation. Students will engage in independent research with interactive group discussions and student presentations.
Public Health^Occupational and Environmental Epidemiology Occupational and Environmental Epidemiology Epidemiological methods for designing, conducting, and interpreting epidemiological studies of persons occupationally or environmentally exposed to chemical and physical agents.
Public Health^Social Epidemiology Social Epidemiology This course is designed to introduce students to the field of social epidemiology and its role in understanding the social determinants of population health and health disparities. This course will provide a systematic and selected overview of literature in the field covering the history and development of the field of social epidemiology, theoretical perspectives, major topical areas, conceptual approaches, and current controversies related to theory, research methods, and research findings. Three
Public Health^Mental Health and Psychopathology Mental Health and Psychopathology This doctoral seminar is designed to provide an understanding of the complex (and often interactive) individual and environmental conditions that increase the risk of psychopathology in individuals across the life span. We will start by learning about general concepts important to an understanding of psychopathology and prevention of psychopathology, including the "biopsychosocial model," "psychological resilence," and different levels of preventive interventions. For each different
Public Health^Methods in Social Epidemiology Methods in Social Epidemiology This course is designed to review, evaluate, and apply methods currently used in the field of social epidemiology. The course aims to teach approaches to forming clear research questions, and selecting the best method(s) to answer the questions posed. Initially we will discuss approaches to defining clear and specific research questions. We will then discuss recent controversies around the meaning of questions posed in social epidemiology, and the ability of currently used methods to answer questions
Public Health^Structural Inequalities and Reproductive Health Structural Inequalities and Reproductive Health This course will address the role that structural inequalities assume in shaping reproductive health disparities. We will examine relevant epidemiological research, review and critique public health interventions, and discuss how research in this area can inform policy. The course will be organized around three modules, each linked to reproductive health: poverty, gender-based violence, and migration. Within each module, students will examine measurement, research design, and ethical challenges.
Public Health^Molecular and Genetic Epidemiology and Human Health in the 21st Century Molecular and Genetic Epidemiology and Human Health in the 21st Century This course will cover basic principles of human/population genetics and molecular biology relevant to understanding approaches to molecular and genetic epidemiology: approaches to genome-wide association studies; application of biomarkers to define exposures; recent developments in genomics, epigenomics and other -omics, including next generation sequencing technology and genomics in personalized medicine and health. Hands-on computer and wet laboratory will provide experience with modern research
Public Health^Outbreak Investigation Outbreak Investigation This course will teach students why and how clusters of illnesses/epidemics are investigated. Methods and approaches required for such investigations will be discussed in detail, using published articles from the scientific literature to provide examples.
Public Health^Public Health Preparedness &amp; Emergency Response Public Health Preparedness &amp; Emergency Response This one semester course is an intensive introduction to public health emergency preparedness and response, and covers the following topic areas: the role of public health in disasters, natural disasters and severe weather, intentional mass threats (CBRNE), detecting and monitoring public health threats, post-disaster sampling, surveys, rapid needs assessments, public health emergency incident management system, emergency operations planning and exercises, infectious disease emergency readiness
Public Health^Outbreak Investigations Outbreak Investigations This intensive course covers the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities to conduct an epidemiologic field investigation including concepts for controlling infectious diseases; the epidemiologic approach and steps to public health action; conducting an outbreak investigation; conducting post-diseaster rapid health assessments; field sampling design and implementation; field survey design and implementation; design and management of field database systems; and analysis of outbreak modules using
Public Health^Public Health Preparedness and Emergency Response Public Health Preparedness and Emergency Response This one semester course is an intensive introduction to public health emergency preparedness and response, and covers the following topic areas: the role of public health in disasters; natural disasters and severe weather; intentional mass threats (CBRNE); biosurveillance: detecting and monitoring public health threat; post-disaster sampling, surveys, and rapid needs assessments; public health emergency incident management systems; emergency operations planning and exercises.
Public Health^Cancer Epidemiology Cancer Epidemiology For students with a basic understanding of epidemiology, biostatistics, and tumor biology. An introduction to the epidemiology of some major site-specific cancers, considering epidemiological approaches to the study of their causation, and implementation will be discussed.
Public Health^Ethical Issues in Epidemiology Research Ethical Issues in Epidemiology Research Ethical issues are as important for the field of epidemiology as they are for all human endeavors. Of special concern to epidemiologists are: informed consent, privacy and confidentiality, academic freedom, contractual obligations, beneficence and non-maleficence, scientific misconduct, and fraud. These are but a few of the issues being addressed currently by epidemiologists and which will be considered in this course.
Public Health^History of Epidemiology History of Epidemiology This course traces the development of epidemiological methodology and theory from the "Golden Age" of Greece in the sixth century B.C. to modern practice at the turn of the 21st century. Consideration will also be given to historical events such as major epidemics and important research activities. The course provides students preparing for academic careers in epidemiology the background to teach and research the field. Case studies will be a major vehicle for accomplishing the course
Public Health^Practical Applications of Epidemiologic Methods in Developing Countries Practical Applications of Epidemiologic Methods in Developing Countries Practical application of epidemiologic methods in the developing country settings, including surveillance, surveys, case-control studies, and intervention trials. The applications of these methods to the study of infectious and non-infectious disease problems common in developing countries will be presented.
Public Health^Principles of Infectious Diseases Principles of Infectious Diseases This course presents general principles of microbial interactions with humans that result in infection and disease. Common themes are developed using examples of viral, bacterial, and parasitological pathogens that exemplify mechanisms of infectious disease. The epidemiology, pathogenesis, host immune response, diagnosis, treatment, and control will be presented for each infectious disease discussed.
Public Health^Principles of Infectious Diseases Principles of Infectious Diseases This course presents general principles of microbial interactions with humans that result in infection and disease. Common themes are developed using examples of viral, bacterial, and parasitological pathogens that exemplify mechanisms of infectious disease. The epidemiology, pathogenesis, host immune response, diagnosis, treatment, and control will be presented for each infectious disease discussed.
Public Health^Infectious Disease Laboratory Infectious Disease Laboratory Module I: Practice in standard techniques for the isolation, identification, and characterization of infectious agents; laboratory safety. Module 2: Application of molecular methods to the identification and characterization of infectious agents, vectors, and hosts.
Public Health^Molecular Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases Molecular Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases The course will cover general principles and practical approaches in the use of molecular laboratory techniques to address infectious disease epidemiologic problems. It is designed for students with experience in the laboratory or in epidemiology, but not both. The principles to be discussed will include the use of molecular techniques in outbreak investigations, characterizations of dynamics of disease transmission, identifying vehicles, and quantifying attributable risks in sporadic infections
Public Health^Infectious Disease Research in Developing Countries Infectious Disease Research in Developing Countries The objective of this course is to provide M.P.H. and Ph.D. students with an appreciation and understanding of the complex issues involved in conducting scientific, laboratory-based investigation in developing countries. We will discuss the many obstacles to establishing and sustaining research projects, such as poor infrastructure, insufficient financial and material resources, and lack of scientific information and interaction. More importantly, we will identify innovative solutions to overcoming
Public Health^Advanced Medical Virology Advanced Medical Virology Analysis of viral and host factors that play a role in viral diseases of medical importance. Four units of credit given to doctoral students who write a research proposal on a topic other than that proposed for their dissertation.
Public Health^Molecular and Cellular Basis of Bacterial Pathogenesis Molecular and Cellular Basis of Bacterial Pathogenesis This course for graduate students will explore the molecular and cellular basis of bacterial pathogenesis. The emphasis will be on model bacterial pathogens of mammals. The course also will include some aspects of bacterial genetics and physiology, immune response to infection, and the cell biology of host-parasite interactions. Taught concurrently with. Students enrolled in 262 also will be required to attend a weekly discussion of the primary literature, both current and classic. Each student
Public Health^Public Health Immunology Public Health Immunology This course will be the principal immunology course for students in the field of public health. It is designed to teach both the basic biology of the human immune system and its response in health and disease, especially the specific response of the human immune system to major human pathogens. Four areas will be explored: 1) components of the immune system (spectrum of cell types and cell products); 2) different arms of the immune system including humoral, cell-mediated, innate, and mucosal immunity;
Public Health^Current Issues in Infectious Diseases Current Issues in Infectious Diseases Examination of scientific, social, and policy dimensions of issues involving infectious diseases. Students select one topic for in-depth analysis and present findings in a public debate. Topics vary from year to year.
Public Health^Molecular Parasitology Molecular Parasitology Advanced course in the molecular aspects of parasite immunology, molecular biology, genetics, biochemistry, and genomics. For each parasite, the following areas will be covered: biology; disease spectrum; epidemiology; pathogenesis, immunology; and vaccine development. The lectures will focus on "state-of-the-art" research in relation to molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis, parasite adaptations for survival within the host, and strategies for drug and vaccine development and disease control
Public Health^Viruses and Human Cancer Viruses and Human Cancer Topics include the basic biology of cancer; molecular biology of tumor viruses; mechanisms of viral carcinogenesis; characteristics of virally transformed cells; the challenge of proving the viral etiology of human cancers; the epidemiology, pathology, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of virally caused human cancers. The course format will include lectures and reading/discussion of original research publications. To be taken for three units if a term paper is written and for two units without
Public Health^Foodborne diseases Foodborne diseases This course will cover public health, microbiological, social, and economical issues related to foodborne diseases. Three areas will be explored: 1) categories, clinical manifestations, and disease processes of foodborne illnesses; 2) etiological agents causing foodborne illnesses; 3) investigation and prevention of foodborne illness. The course will discuss different types of foodborne diseases, clinical manifestations, and the interactions between etiological agents (pathogens and non-pathogens)
Public Health^Zoonotic Diseases Zoonotic Diseases This is a graduate (Ph.D. and MPH) level course designed to describe the major zoonoses and their life cycle, disease manifestations, epidemiology, and methods for prevention and control. Available treatments, diagnostics, and public health and agriculture surveillance and “forecasting” programs will also be discussed. The most recent research on the molecular and cellular basis of the mechanisms and consequences of the “species” jump from other animals to humans will be reviewed. The global nature
Public Health^Characterization of Airborne Contaminants Characterization of Airborne Contaminants Principles underlying the use of air monitoring methods in industry and the environment. Topics include behavior of gases, vapors, and aerosols; mechanisms of absorption and elimination of inhaled toxicants; methods for measuring of airborne chemicals and particles.
Public Health^Health Impact Assessment Health Impact Assessment Health Impact Assessment (HIA) refers to a diverse set of analytic and communicative practices that aim to inform and improve social decisions in order to improve the environmental, economic, and social conditions required for optimal propulation health. This course provides an introduction to HIA with a focus on the need for and application of HIA to land use and transportation planning and development. The objectives of the course include understanding and comparing the range of practices used
Public Health^Ergonomics Seminar Ergonomics Seminar Readings and lectures in occupational biomechanics. Topics to be covered are muscle, tendon, and joint biomechanics, material handling models, mechanisms of injury, hand tool design, and instrumentation issues. Students will prepare critical reviews of recent publications and design an engineering intervention to reduce work-related risk factors.
Public Health^Current Topics in Environmental Medicine Current Topics in Environmental Medicine Topics in environmental medicine will provide students with an overview of the health impacts, disease mechanisms, and public health controversies related to selected environmental exposures. The course will cover established environmental diseases as well as impacts of some emerging exposures of concern. The focus will primarily be on pathophysiology, issues related to exposure pathways, and the susceptibilities of specific human populations. No prior medical knowledge required.
Public Health^Introduction to Environmental Health Sciences Introduction to Environmental Health Sciences This survey course covers the breadth of hazards to chemical, biological, and physical agents of concern to environmental health professionals. Lectures are presented by experts on particular topics that emphasize the activities involved in professional practice. Students will also meet twice monthly with the instructor to discuss advanced readings and assignments related to the lecture topics. Students will conduct a project on a topic of current interest in some aspect of environmental health
Public Health^Exposure Assessment and Control Exposure Assessment and Control Direct and indirect methods and procedures for the estimation and control of human exposure to chemical, physical, and biological agents of concern to health in the community and in occupational settings. Includes review of measurement technologies, exposure assessment strategies, and multipathway analyses used by regulatory agencies. Also covers exposure control options and strategies, including administrative procedures, personal protective equipment, and various engineering control approaches.
Public Health^Toxicology I Toxicology I Introduction to toxicology covering basic principles, dose-response, toxicity testing, chemical metabolism, mechanisms of toxicity, carcinogenesis, interpretation of toxicological data for risk assessment, and target organ toxicity.
Public Health^Practical Toxicology Practical Toxicology This course will focus on cutting-edge issues involving real-world toxicology in drug discovery, pesticide regulation, stem cell research, etc. Many well-known toxicologists, regulators, and consultants from pharmaceutical companies, petroleum industry, private consulting firms, non-profit institutes, federal and state regulatory agencies in the Bay Area will be invited to talk to our participating students. Some of the speakers are our school's alumni who understand exactly what our students need
Public Health^Advanced Toxicology Advanced Toxicology The application of toxicology to answer questions about safety and risk. Using a case-study approach, participants will learn how to interpret toxicological data and apply their knowledge to evaluating the risk presented by exposures to toxic chemicals, including drugs and environmental contaminants. Discussion of current topics of controversy in the field of toxicology.
Public Health^Drinking Water and Health Drinking Water and Health The course covers monitoring, control and regulatory policy of microbial, chemical and radiological drinking water contaminants. Additional subjects include history and iconography of safe water, communicating risks to water consumers and a bottled water versus tap water taste test as part of the discussion on aesthetic water quality parameters.
Public Health^Health Implications of Climate Change Health Implications of Climate Change The course will provide a basic foundation in the physical mechanisms of, responses to, and health implications of climate change. We will explore the variety of epidemiologic, risk assessment, and statistical methods used to understand the impacts of climate change on health across diverse demographic groups. The public health implications, positive and negative, of efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change will be elaborated, including discussions of ethical, political, and economic aspects
Public Health^Global Burden of Disease and Comparative Risk Assessment Global Burden of Disease and Comparative Risk Assessment The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) database utilized by provides estimates of illness, injury, and death by disease type, age, sex, and world region in a consistent and coherent manner. The course will explore the ways such a detailed database makes possible a wide range of new types of analysis of health priorities and the relationship of database will also be introduced. This seminar will also provide an opportunity for reading and discussion of the basic assumptions, data limitations, critiques
Public Health^Science and Policy for Environment and Health Science and Policy for Environment and Health Scientific knowledge and analyses are important to the development of public policies that address the impact of the environment on health. The limits of existing knowledge and uncertainties in research results create significant challenges in applying science to answer critical questions. This course critically examines how scientific information is used in policy decisions. Case studies of current issues address characterization of scientific knowledge, interpretation of science in policy contexts
Public Health^Global Environmental Change for Health Scientists Global Environmental Change for Health Scientists The course will first provide a basic foundation in the physical and societal basis of climate change, including atmospheric structure and feedbacks, carbon cycling, and the sources and trends of human and natural greenhouse pollutant emissions. Forecasts of future climate, and their uncertainties, will be discussed, emphasizing parameters of potential relevance to human health. We will explore epidemiologic, risk assessment, and statistical methods appropriate for understanding the impact of climate
Public Health^Geographic Information Science for Public and Environmental Health Geographic Information Science for Public and Environmental Health Geographic information systems (GIS) have emerged as an important tool for performing health and environmental analyses. GIS is generally seen as a spatial analysis system for the organization, storage, retrieval, and analysis of data for which the location and other spatial attributes are considered important (e.g., incidence of a specific disease condition in relation to a pollution source). GIS also encompasses the organizational structure, personnel, software, and hardware needed to support
Public Health^Case Studies in Environmental and Occupational Epidemiology Case Studies in Environmental and Occupational Epidemiology Using published studies as examples, we will focus on key epidemiologic methods as they arise in the study of environmental hazards in the community and workplace. Selected topics include the validity of exposure assessment for both community-based and workplace-based studies, specific forms of selection bias (e.g., healthy worker survivor effect), measurement error (e.g., exposure misclassification), time varying confounding, and analytical methods to model exposure-reponse (e.g., person-years
Public Health^Current Topics in Vaccinology Current Topics in Vaccinology This is an advanced level course designed to cover current issues related to the biological and analytical aspects of vaccine development and utilization. Latest developments in recombinant vaccine technology, vaccine delivery systems, "naked DNA" vaccines, "designer" vaccines, new adjuvants, anti-tumor vaccines, epidemiological approaches to assess vaccine efficacy, effectiveness, and safety will be discussed and covered.
Public Health^Integrity in the Conduct of Research Integrity in the Conduct of Research This course presents an analysis of the core issues for the responsible and ethical conduct of research in biomedical sciences. Issues pertinent to standards and responsibilities of research conduct, authorship and publication practices, peer review and privileged information, conflicts of interest, collaboration, and use of animals and humans in research will be defined and explored. The legal and regulatory structures, definitions of misconduct and process of misconduct investigations will be
Public Health^Public Health and Spirituality Public Health and Spirituality This course presents a brief introduction to the emerging field of spirituality and health. We examine scholarly and scientific views of links between spirituality, religion, and health. Topics include highlights and overviews of the rapidly emerging scientific evidence base, public health relevance, collaborations with faith-based organizations, and other practical applications.
Public Health^Topics in the History of Medicine and Public Health Topics in the History of Medicine and Public Health A series of lectures and seminars providing detailed scrutiny of selected topics in the history of medicine, public health, and the allied health sciences. The precise content will vary from year to year and may reflect, in part, topics of class interest. Students electing to take the course for 3 units will be assigned a research topic.
Public Health^Public Health Injury Prevention and Control Public Health Injury Prevention and Control Injuries are a major and often neglected health problem with substantial human and economic costs. Injuries are the leading cause of death from the first year of life to age 45, and the leading cause of lost potential years of life. This course provides an historical and conceptual framework within which to consider injuries (both intentional and unintentional) as social, and public health problems. Through review of epidemiology and intervention studies, course work will consider the causes and
Public Health^Traffic Safety and Injury Control Traffic Safety and Injury Control This course applies principles of engineering, behavioral science, and vision science to preventing traffic collisions and subsequent injury. A systematic approach to traffic safety will be presented in the course, and will include (1) human behavior, vehicle design, and roadway design as interacting approaches to preventing traffic crashes and (2) vehicle and roadway designs as approaches to preventing injury once a collision has occured. Implications of intelligent transportation system concepts
Public Health^Preventive Medicine Residency Seminar: Managed Care and Preventive Medicine Preventive Medicine Residency Seminar: Managed Care and Preventive Medicine This seminar is required for preventive medicine residents, but is also open to other physicians and medical students interested in preventive medicine and public health practice. It provides an overview of preventive medicine practice, especially those areas covered by the American Board of Preventive Medicine examination in public health and preventive medicine. The objectives of this seminar are to review basic principles and practices of health care organization and financing, quality assurance
Public Health^Preventive Medicine Residency Seminar: Public Administration Preventive Medicine Residency Seminar: Public Administration This seminar is required for preventive medicine residents, but is also open to other physicians and medical students interested in preventive medicine and public health practice. It provides an overview of preventive medicine practice, especially those areas covered by the American Board of Preventive Medicine examination in public health and preventive medicine. The objectives of this seminar are to review basic principles and practices of public administration as they relate to the management
Public Health^Interdisciplinary Health Seminar Interdisciplinary Health Seminar This hybrid seminar course consists of both online and face-to-face instruction, with the objective of mastering, at least partially, the following competencies: basic leadership skills for public health leaders, ability to design and conduct a needs assessment and stakeholder analysis, the ability to critically analyze a public health journal article, the ability to conduct an ethical analysis in public health, basic negotation skills, and the ability to complete a Human Subjects Protocol (IRB)
Public Health^Health Issues Seminars Health Issues Seminars A discussion of current developments and issues in public health of interest to faculty and students of the department as a whole. Content varies from semester to semester depending upon current issues and interests.
Public Health^Preparation for Public Health Practice Preparation for Public Health Practice A series of skills-based workshops designed to introduce the student to specialized skills needed in the public health workplace. These workshops are designed to complement the core curriculum of the School of Public Health and are selected based on regular feedback from faculty, public health practitioners, and students. Workshop facilitators include consultants, CPHP field supervisors, and public health practitioners with expertise in the subject. This course or series of workshops is open to
Public Health^Seminars for M.P.H. Students Seminars for M.P.H. Students Current topics and special issues in the health field.
Public Health^Doctoral Seminar Doctoral Seminar Discussion and analysis of dissertation research projects, as well as of conceptual and methodological problems in planning and conducting health research.
Public Health^Special Study Special Study Designed to permit any qualified graduate student to pursue special study under the direction of a faculty member.
Public Health^Field Study in Public Health Field Study in Public Health Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of public health in off-campus organizations for graduate students. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required.
Public Health^Independent Research Independent Research Independent study and research.
Public Health^School of Public Health Schoolwide Pedagogy Course School of Public Health Schoolwide Pedagogy Course Skill development and professional preparation for graduate student instructors in public health courses. Preparing for and leading discussion sections. Designing writing prompts. Preparing and creating problem sets. Working with students one-on-one. Grading students' writing and exams. Self assessment. Developing a course syllabus. Use of technology in public health classes. Required for first-time public health GSIs who are not participating in an SPH divisional pedagogy course.
Public Health^Instructional Techniques in Biostatistics Instructional Techniques in Biostatistics Discussion and practice of techniques in teaching biostatistics as applied to public health topics.
English^First-Year Reading and Composition First-Year Reading and Composition Training in writing expository prose. N1A. Instruction in expository writing in conjunction with reading literature. Satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
English^First-Year Reading and Composition First-Year Reading and Composition Training in writing expository prose. N1B. Further instruction in expository writing in conjunction with reading literature. Satisfies the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
English^Reading and Composition Reading and Composition Training in writing expository prose. Instruction in expository writing in conjunction with reading literature. Satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
English^First-Year Reading and Composition First-Year Reading and Composition Training in writing expository prose. Instruction in writing and reading expository prose. Satisfies the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
English^Reading and Composition Reading and Composition Training in writing expository prose. Further instruction in expository writing in conjunction with reading literature. Satisfies the second half of the Reading and Composition requirement.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare Lectures on Shakespeare and reading of his best works.
English^Modern British and American Literature Modern British and American Literature Lectures on and discussion of major authors of modern British and American literature.
English^English as a Language English as a Language An introduction to the grammar of English, including phonology (sound structure), morphology (word structure), syntax (sentence structure), semantics (linguistic meaning), and pragmatics (contextual meaning), with consideration of different varieties of English in use within the United States and throughout the world, and comparison of English with other languages.
English^Introduction to the Study of Poetry Introduction to the Study of Poetry Lectures and discussion on poetry intended to develop the student's ability to understand and evaluate a poem. Designed primarily for students whose major is not English, but majors and prospective majors are welcome.
English^Introduction to the Study of Fiction Introduction to the Study of Fiction Lectures and discussion intended to develop the student's ability to understand and evaluate fiction. Designed primarily for students whose major is not English, but majors and prospective majors are welcome.
English^Introduction to the Study of Drama Introduction to the Study of Drama Lectures and discussion intended to develop the student's ability to read, understand and evaluate plays. Designed primarily for students whose major is not English, but majors and prospective majors are welcome.
English^Literature of American Cultures Literature of American Cultures An introduction to the ethnic diversity of American literature. The course will take substantial account of the literature of three or more of the following groups: African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, and European Americans. Topics vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" well before the beginning of the semester for details.
English^African American Literature and Culture African American Literature and Culture Major literary and cultural texts in the African American tradition from origins to the present.
English^Chicana/o Literature and Culture Chicana/o Literature and Culture Major literary and cultural texts in the Chicana/o tradition from origins to the present.
English^Introduction to the Writing of Short Fiction Introduction to the Writing of Short Fiction A workshop course intended for students who have recently begun to write fiction or who have not previously taken a course in creative writing.
English^Introduction to the Writing of Verse Introduction to the Writing of Verse A workshop course intended for students who have recently begun to write verse or who have not previously taken a course in creative writing.
English^Literature in English: Through Milton Literature in English: Through Milton Historical survey of literature in English: Beginnings through Milton.
English^Literature in English: The Late-17th through the Mid-19th Century Literature in English: The Late-17th through the Mid-19th Century Historical survey of literature in English: The late-17th through the mid-19th century.
English^Literature in English: The Mid-19th through the 20th Century Literature in English: The Mid-19th through the 20th Century Historical survey of literature in English: the mid-19th through the 20th century.
English^Introduction to Environmental Studies Introduction to Environmental Studies This integrative course, taught by a humanities professor and a science professor, surveys current global environmental issues; introduces the basic intellectual tools of environmental science; investigates ways the human relationship to nature has been imagined in literary and philosophical traditions; and examines how tools of scientific and literary analysis; scientific method, and imaginative thinking can clarify what is at stake in environmental issues and ecological citizenship.
English^Children's Literature Children's Literature The study of selected works written for children.
English^Directed Group Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Directed Group Study for Freshmen and Sophomores Group study in a field that may not coincide with that of any regular course and must be specific enough to enable students to write essays based upon their studies.
English^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
English^Independent Study Independent Study Meetings to be arranged. Reading and regular conference with the instructor in a field that shall not coincide with that of any regular course and shall be specific enough to enable students to write essays based on their studies.
English^The History of the English Language The History of the English Language The history of the English language from its Indo-European roots, through its Old, Middle, and Early Modern periods, as preserved in the literary heritage, to its different forms in use throughout the world today.
English^Topics in the English Language Topics in the English Language Topics vary from semester to semester.
English^Introduction to Old English Introduction to Old English Basic introduction to the vocabulary, grammar, and syntax of Old English designed to get students reading original texts immediately. Typical Old English texts include: riddles, charms, medical recipes, laws, chronicles, elegies, saints' lives, heroic poetry, and monster lore.
English^Anglo-Saxon England Anglo-Saxon England Instruction in the basic elements of the Old English language with analysis of literary and cultural issues relating to the formative period of the English nation. (Undergraduates who pass 105 with a grade of B+ or higher, or with permission of the 205B instructor, are eligible to enroll in 205B, Beowulf.)
English^The English Bible As Literature The English Bible As Literature Introduction to the English Bible treated as a literary work.
English^English Bible as Literature English Bible as Literature Introduction to the English Bible treated as a literary work.
English^Medieval Literature Medieval Literature Development of literary form and idiom throughout the Christian West from the first to the fifteenth century.
English^Chaucer Chaucer Lectures on and discussion of Chaucer's major works.
English^Middle English Literature Middle English Literature Middle English literature exclusive of Chaucer studied in the original language.
English^English Drama English Drama English drama to 1603.
English^English Drama English Drama English drama from 1603 to 1700.
English^English Drama English Drama English drama to 1603.
English^English Drama English Drama English drama from 1603 to 1700.
English^The English Renaissance The English Renaissance Beginnings of the English Renaissance and literature of the 16th century.
English^The English Renaissance The English Renaissance Literature of the 17th century.
English^The English Renaissance The English Renaissance Beginnings of the English Renaissance and literature of the 16th century.
English^The English Renaissance The English Renaissance Literature of the 17th century.
English^Backgrounds of English Literature in the Continental Renaissance Backgrounds of English Literature in the Continental Renaissance A survey of the principal continental documents which are important to an understanding of the English Renaissance.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare A chronological survey of Shakespeare's career.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare A chronological survey of Shakespeare's career.
English^Shakespeare and Film Shakespeare and Film Close study of the texts and films based on 8 to 10 plays. Lectures will emphasize the critical implications of transposing plays to film. The goal of the course is the critical understanding of Shakespeare, and the course satisfies the departmental requirement of a course on Shakespeare in the major.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare Study of selected plays, with practice in various critical approaches, e.g., establishing text, relation to source, changing concepts of comedy and tragedy, influence of theatrical conditions on technique.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare Lectures on Shakespeare and reading of his best works.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare Lectures on Shakespeare and reading of his best works.
English^Shakespeare in the Theatre Shakespeare in the Theatre The interrelation of Elizabethan plays and stage practices. Classroom exercises, written assignments, and a final examination. The course will usually culminate in the performance of a play.
English^Milton Milton Lectures on and discussion of Milton's major works.
English^Milton Milton Lectures on and discussion of Milton's major works.
English^Literature of the Restoration and Early Eighteenth Century Literature of the Restoration and Early Eighteenth Century Lectures on and discussion of Dryden, Swift, Pope, and some of their contemporaries.
English^Literature of the Later 18th Century Literature of the Later 18th Century Lectures on and discussion of later eighteenth-century British literature.
English^Romantic Period Romantic Period Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats, and contemporaries.
English^Romantic Period Romantic Period Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats, and contemporaries.
English^Victorian Period Victorian Period Literature of the Victorian period with an emphasis on poetry and nonfiction prose.
English^The English Novel The English Novel Defoe through Scott.
English^The English Novel The English Novel Dickens through Conrad.
English^The European Novel The European Novel Lectures on and discussion of major European novels.
English^The 20th-Century Novel The 20th-Century Novel Lectures on and discussion of major novels of the twentieth century.
English^The Contemporary Novel The Contemporary Novel Important contemporary novels, some of which may be read in translation.
English^The English Novel The English Novel Dickens through Conrad.
English^The 20th-Century Novel The 20th-Century Novel Lectures on and discussion of major novels of the twentieth century.
English^The Contemporary Novel The Contemporary Novel Important contemporary novels, some of which may be read in translation.
English^British Literature: 1900-1945 British Literature: 1900-1945 Lectures on and discussion of British literature written between 1900 and 1945.
English^Modern Poetry Modern Poetry British and American poetry: 1900 to the present.
English^Modern Drama Modern Drama British and American drama: 1860 to the present.
English^American Literature: Before 1800 American Literature: Before 1800 Lectures on and discussion of the major writers of the early American period.
English^American Literature: 1800-1865 American Literature: 1800-1865 Lectures on and discussion of the major texts of the American Renaissance.
English^American Literature: 1865-1900 American Literature: 1865-1900 Lectures on and discussion of American literature from the Civil War through 1900.
English^American Literature: 1900-1945 American Literature: 1900-1945 A survey of modern American literature.
English^American Literature: Before 1800 American Literature: Before 1800 Lectures on and discussion of the major writers of the early American period.
English^American Literature: 1800-1865 American Literature: 1800-1865 Lectures on and discussion of the major texts of the American Renaissance.
English^American Literature: 1900-1945 American Literature: 1900-1945 A survey of modern American literature.
English^American Poetry American Poetry A historical survey of American poetry and its backgrounds.
English^American Novel American Novel A survey of major American novels.
English^American Novel American Novel A survey of major American novels.
English^African American Literature and Culture Before 1917 African American Literature and Culture Before 1917 Major literary and cultural texts in the African American tradition from origins through World War I.
English^African American Literature and Culture Since 1917 African American Literature and Culture Since 1917 Major literary and cultural texts in the African American tradition from the Harlem Renaissance through the twentieth century.
English^Topics in African American Literature and Culture Topics in African American Literature and Culture Topics vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings well before the beginning of the semester.
English^Contemporary Literature Contemporary Literature Lectures on and discussion of selected works written since the Second World War.
English^Contemporary Literature Contemporary Literature Lectures on and discussion of selected works written since the Second World War.
English^Literature of American Cultures Literature of American Cultures Study of the ethnic diversity of American literature. The course will take substantial account of the literature of three or more of the following groups: African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, and European Americans. Topics vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" well before the beginning of the semester for details.
English^Literature of American Cultures Literature of American Cultures Study of the ethnic diversity of American literature. The course will take substantial account of the literature of three or more of the following groups: African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, and European Americans. Topics vary from summer to summer.
English^Literature of American Cultures Literature of American Cultures Study of the ethnic diversity of American literature. The course will take substantial account of the literature of three or more of the following groups: African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, and European Americans. Topics vary from semester to semester. Topic for this summer: Theorizing Children's Literature in American Cultures.
English^Topics in American Studies Topics in American Studies A course on the intellectual, cultural, historical, and social backgrounds to American literature. Topics will vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for current offerings well before the start of the semester.
English^Chicana/o Literature and Culture to 1910 Chicana/o Literature and Culture to 1910 Major literary and cultural texts in the Chicana/o tradition from origins through the Mexican Revolution of 1910.
English^Chicana/o Literature and Culture Since 1910 Chicana/o Literature and Culture Since 1910 Major literary and cultural texts in the Chicana/o tradition from 1910 through the contemporary Chicana/o period.
English^Topics in Chicana/o Literature and Culture Topics in Chicana/o Literature and Culture Topics in Chicana/o literature and culture.
English^Studies in World Literature in English Studies in World Literature in English An examination of various aspects of the modern literature written in English in Africa, the Caribbean, India, and Southeast Asia. Topics will vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for current offerings well before the start of the semester.
English^The Cultures of English The Cultures of English Literatures of various regions in which English is one of the spoken languages, such as Canada, the Caribbean, Australia, Africa, India; and the writings of specific groups or distinctive cultures in the English-speaking world, including the U.S. and the British Isles. Topics vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for current offerings well before the start of the semester.
English^Modes of Writing (Exposition, Fiction, Verse, Etc.) Modes of Writing (Exposition, Fiction, Verse, Etc.) Writing in connection with reading in recent English literature and its continental background.
English^Modes of Writing (Exposition, Fiction, Verse, Etc.) Modes of Writing (Exposition, Fiction, Verse, Etc.) Writing in connection with reading in recent English literature and its continental background.
English^Short Fiction Short Fiction A seminar in writing short stories.
English^Verse Verse A seminar in writing poetry.
English^Long Narrative Long Narrative Students will work through the semester on a single project, either fiction (novel) or nonfiction (biography, history).
English^Visual Autobiography Visual Autobiography Since visual and literary studies have historically been viewed as separate disciplines, we will use theories from both to study those forms of self-representation that defy disciplinary boundaries, or what we call "visual autobiography." The course aims to help students become conversant with the elements of alphabetic literacy (reading and writing) and visual literacy (observing and making) in order to develop a third distinctive textual/visual literacy.
English^Expository and Critical Writing Expository and Critical Writing A seminar in expository and critical writing.
English^Playwriting Playwriting A seminar in playwriting.
English^Prose Nonfiction Prose Nonfiction A seminar in the writing of prose nonfiction as an art.
English^Poetry Translation Workshop Poetry Translation Workshop Open to those who wish to assimilate foreign influences for writing poetry or to seek a fuller understanding of any foreign poetry by rendering it into English.
English^Women Writers Women Writers Topics will vary from semester to semester.
English^Women Writers Women Writers Topics will vary from summer to summer. Topic for this summer: Modern British Women Novelists.
English^Methods and Materials of Literary Criticism Methods and Materials of Literary Criticism An introduction to issues in literary criticism with emphasis on application of principles and methods to selected literary texts.
English^Introduction to Literary Theory Introduction to Literary Theory This class will focus on literary theory.
English^Special Topics in American Cultures Special Topics in American Cultures Designed primarily for English majors. Study of a special topic related to the diversity of the United States. Topics vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings well before the beginning of the semester.
English^Special Topics in American Cultures Special Topics in American Cultures Study of a special topic related to the diversity of the United States. Topics vary from semester to semester. Student's should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings well before the beginning of the semester.
English^Literature and the Arts Literature and the Arts Studies in the relationship of literature in English to the arts.
English^Literature and Sexual Identity Literature and Sexual Identity Sexual identity in literature in relation to thematics, literary convention, psychology, and the particular politics and sociology of individual cultures. The course may range broadly over Western literature or concentrate on one historical period.
English^Literature and Psychology Literature and Psychology Studies in the relationship of literature in English to psychology.
English^The Language and Literature of Films The Language and Literature of Films Studies in film as a mode of representing reality; cinematic techniques and the "language" of film. Lectures, class discussions, and film viewings.
English^The Language and Literature of Films The Language and Literature of Films Studies in film as a mode of representing reality; cinematic techniques and the language of film. Lectures, class discussions, and film viewings.
English^Literature and History Literature and History Topics will vary from semester to semester.
English^Literature and Disability Literature and Disability Studies of the relationships among literature, culture, and "disability." The course may range broadly or concentrate on one historical period, genre, or issue.
English^Literature and Popular Culture Literature and Popular Culture Topics will vary from semester to semester.
English^Literature and Philosophy Literature and Philosophy Studies in the relationship of literature in English to philosophy.
English^Literature and Philosophy Literature and Philosophy Studies in the relationship of English literature to philosophy.
English^British and American Folklore British and American Folklore Study of representative forms of folklore and oral literature among the English-speaking people of the British Isles and North America.
English^Literature and Linguistics Literature and Linguistics Study of the English language as a medium for literature. Topics may include rhyme, alliteration, meter, poetic syntax, metaphor, irony, the language of point of view, narrative tense, orality, literacy, etc.
English^Autobiography Autobiography Lectures on and discussion of autobiographical forms.
English^Comedy Comedy Studies of representative comic forms, techniques, and points of view.
English^The Epic The Epic Reading and discussion of epics, considering their cultural and historical contexts, the nature of their composition, and the development of the form.
English^Short Story Short Story Lectures on and discussion of the form of the short story.
English^The Essay The Essay Study of the essay as a literary form, the circumstances of its use and development, and its fortunes in twentieth-century culture.
English^Lyric Verse Lyric Verse Study of lyric forms and techniques.
English^The Novel The Novel Study of the novel as a literary genre, its formal development and variations, its technical possibilities, its cultural functions. Topics may vary from semester to semester.
English^Autobiography Autobiography Lectures on and discussion of autobiographical forms.
English^Short Story Short Story Lectures on and discussion of the form of the short story.
English^Science Fiction Science Fiction A survey of science fiction which includes both short stories and novels. The focus will be on the analysis of the texts and on the history and theory of the genre.
English^The Romance The Romance Study of the romance as a literary genre. Topics may vary from semester to semester; focus may be historical or restricted to a particular period (e.g., medieval, modern).
English^Satire Satire Study of representative satire forms, techniques, and points of view.
English^Tragedy Tragedy Study of representative tragic forms, techniques, and points of view.
English^Science Fiction Science Fiction Study of speculative fiction (or science fiction) as a genre. Topics may vary from semester to semester. Focus may be historical or thematic.
English^Research Seminar Research Seminar Research-oriented and designed for upper-division English majors. Intensive examination of critical approaches, literary theory, or a special topic in literary and cultural studies. Topics vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings well before the beginning of the semester.
English^Honors Course Honors Course This is a two-semester course, graded IP at the end of the first semester. During the second semester, each student will write an honors thesis. Completion of the thesis is required for a passing grade in the course.
English^Honors Course Honors Course This is a two-semester course, graded IP at the end of the first semester. During the second semester, each student will write an honors thesis. Completion of the thesis is required for a passing grade in the course.
English^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
English^Supervised Independent Study for Advanced Undergraduates Supervised Independent Study for Advanced Undergraduates Meetings to be arranged. Enrollment is restricted by university regulations. Reading and conference with the instructor in a field that shall not coincide with that of any regular course and shall be specific enough to enable students to write essays based upon their studies.
English^Problems in the Study of Literature Problems in the Study of Literature Approaches to literary study, including textual analysis, scholarly methodology and bibliography, critical theory and practice.
English^Graduate Readings Graduate Readings Graduate lecture courses surveying broad areas and periods of literary history, and directing students in wide reading. Offerings vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings well before the beginning of the semester.
English^Chaucer Chaucer Discussion of Chaucer's major works.
English^Readings in Middle English Readings in Middle English Rapid reading of selections in Middle English, from the twelfth century through the fifteenth.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare Discussion of selected works of Shakespeare.
English^Milton Milton Discussion of Milton's major works.
English^Fiction Writing Workshop Fiction Writing Workshop A writing workshop in fiction for graduate students.
English^Poetry Writing Workshop Poetry Writing Workshop A writing workshop in poetry for graduate students.
English^Prose Nonfiction Writing Workshop Prose Nonfiction Writing Workshop A writing workshop in prose nonfiction for graduate students.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Renaissance: Sixteenth century (excluding, or at least not prominently featuring, Skakespeare) Graduate Proseminars: Renaissance: Sixteenth century (excluding, or at least not prominently featuring, Skakespeare) Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Renaissance: Seventeenth century through Milton Graduate Proseminars: Renaissance: Seventeenth century through Milton Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Restoration and early 18th century Graduate Proseminars: Restoration and early 18th century Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Later 18th century Graduate Proseminars: Later 18th century Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Romantic Graduate Proseminars: Romantic Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Victorian Graduate Proseminars: Victorian Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: American to 1855 Graduate Proseminars: American to 1855 Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: American 1855 to 1900 Graduate Proseminars: American 1855 to 1900 Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Literature in English 1900 to 1945 Graduate Proseminars: Literature in English 1900 to 1945 Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Graduate Proseminars: Literature in English 1945 to Present Graduate Proseminars: Literature in English 1945 to Present Proseminars in the major chronological fields of English and American literature providing graduate instruction in scholarly and critical approaches appropriate to each field.
English^Research Seminars Research Seminars Required of all Ph.D. students. Advanced study in various fields, leading to a substantial piece of writing. Offerings vary from semester to semester. Students should consult the department's "Announcement of Classes" for offerings well before the beginning of the semester.
English^Special Studies Special Studies Normally reserved for students directly engaged upon the doctoral dissertation.
English^Special Study Special Study Normally reserved for students directly engaged upon the doctoral dissertation.
English^Field Studies in Tutoring Writing Field Studies in Tutoring Writing Tutoring Berkeley undergraduates in College Writing R1A, R1A, R1B, and other writing and/or literature courses. Seminar topics: the writing process, responding to writing, composition theory, grammar, collaborative learning, tutoring methods. Tutors keep a weekly journal, read assigned articles, videotape their tutoring, and write a final paper. This course cannot be used toward fulfillment of the major requirements.
English^The Teaching of Composition and Literature The Teaching of Composition and Literature Discussion of course aims, instructional methods, grading standards, and special problems in the teaching of composition and literature, with practice in handling sample essays. When given for graduate student instructors in the ENGLISH R1A-R1B Program or the English 45 series, the course will include class visitation.
Material Science^Bonding, Crystallography, and Crystal Defects Bonding, Crystallography, and Crystal Defects Bonding in solids; classification of metals, semiconductors, and insulators; crystal systems; point, line, and planar defects in crystals; examples of crystallographic and defect analysis in engineering materials; relationship to physical and mechanical properties.
Material Science^Phase Transformations and Kinetics Phase Transformations and Kinetics The nature, mechanisms, and kinetics of phase transformations and microstructural changes in the solid state. Atom diffusion in solids. Phase transformations through the nucleation and growth of new matrix or precipitate phases. Martensitic transformations, spinodal decomposition. The use of phase transformations to control microstructure.
Material Science^Materials Characterization Materials Characterization Physical and chemical characterization of materials: Diffraction, imaging, and spectroscopy using optical, electron, and X-ray methods for bulk and surface analysis. Measurement of mechanical and physical properties. Project laboratory focusing on mechanical, chemical, electrical, and magnetic properties of materials, and materials characterization. Field trips.
Material Science^Properties of Electronic Materials Properties of Electronic Materials Introduction to the physical principles underlying the electric properties of modern solids with emphasis on semiconductors; control of defects and impurities through physical purification, bulk and thin film crystal growth and doping processes, materials basis of electronic and optoelectronic devices (diodes, transistors, semiconductor lasers) and optical fibers; properties of metal and oxide superconductors and their applications.
Material Science^Corrosion (Chemical Properties) Corrosion (Chemical Properties) Electrochemical theory of corrosion. Mechanisms and rates in relation to physiochemical and metallurgical factors. Stress corrosion and mechanical influences on corrosion. Corrosion protection by design, inhibition, cathodic protection, and coatings.
Material Science^Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials This course covers elastic and plastic deformation under static and dynamic loads. Prediction and prevention of failure by yielding, fracture, fatigue, wear and environmental factors are addressed. Design issues pertaining to materials selection for load bearing applications are discussed. Case studies of engineering failures are presented. Topics include engineering materials, structure-property relationships, materials selection for design, mechanical behavior of polymers and design of plastic
Material Science^Properties of Dielectric and Magnetic Materials Properties of Dielectric and Magnetic Materials Introduction to the physical principles underlying the dielectric and magnetic properties of solids. Processing-microstructure-property relationships of dielectric materials, including piezoelectric, pryoelectric, and ferroelectric oxides, and of magnetic materials, including hard- and soft ferromagnets, ferrites and magneto-optic and -resistive materials. The course also covers the properties of grain boundary devices (including varistors) as well as ion-conducting and mixed conducting materials
Material Science^Biological Performance of Materials Biological Performance of Materials This course is intended to give students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of topics related to biomedical materials selection and design. Structure-property relationships of biomedical materials and their interaction with biological systems will be addressed. Applications of the concepts developed include blood-materials compatibility, biomimetic materials, hard and soft tissue-materials interactions, drug delivery, tissue engineering, and biotechnology.
Material Science^Materials Production Materials Production Economic and technological significance of metals and other materials. Elementary geology (composition of lithosphere, mineralization). Short survey of mining and mineral processing techniques. Review of chemical thermodynamics and reaction kinetics. Principles of process engineering including material, heat, and mechanical energy balances. Elementary heat transfer, fluid flow, and mass transfer. Electrolytic production and refining of metals. Vapor techniques for production of metals and coatings.
Material Science^Metals Processing Metals Processing The principles of metals processing with emphasis on the use of processing to establish microstructures which impart desirable engineering properties. The techniques discussed include solidification, thermal and mechanical processing, powder processing, welding and joining, and surface treatments.
Material Science^Ceramic Processing Ceramic Processing Powder fabrication by grinding and chemical methods, rheological behavior of powder-fluid suspensions, forming methods, drying, sintering, and grain growth. Relation of processing steps to microstructure development.
Material Science^Semiconductor Processing Semiconductor Processing Semiconductor purification and crystal growth techniques; impurity doping by diffusion, ion implantation and alloy regrowth; contact formation, mechanical and chemical processing; semiconductor analysis.
Material Science^Thin-Film Materials Science Thin-Film Materials Science Deposition, processing, and characterization of thin films and their technological applications. Physical and chemical vapor deposition methods. Thin-film nucleation and growth. Thermal and ion processing. Microstructural development in epitaxial, polycrystalline, and amorphous films. Thin-film characterization techniques. Applications in information storage, integrated circuits, and optoelectronic devices. Laboratory demonstrations.
Material Science^Experimental Materials Science and Design Experimental Materials Science and Design This course provides a culminating experience for students approaching completion of the materials science and engineering curriculum. Laboratory experiments are undertaken in a variety of areas from the investigations on semiconductor materials to corrosion science and elucidate the relationships among structure, processing, properties, and performance. The principles of materials selection in engineering design are reviewed.
Material Science^Materials in Energy Technologies Materials in Energy Technologies In many, if not all, technologies, it is materials that play a crucial, enabling role. This course examines potentially sustainable technologies, and the materials properties that enable them. The science at the basis of selected energy technologies are examined and considered in case studies.
Material Science^Nanomaterials for Scientists and Engineers Nanomaterials for Scientists and Engineers This course introduces the fundamental principles needed to understand the behavior of materials at the nanometer length scale and the different classes of nanomaterials with applications ranging from information technology to biotechnology. Topics include introduction to different classes of nanomaterials, synthesis and characterization of nanomaterials, and the electronic, magnetic, optical, and mechanical properties of nanomaterials.
Material Science^Introduction to Materials Chemistry Introduction to Materials Chemistry The application of basic chemical principles to problems in materials discovery, design, and characterization will be discussed. Topics covered will include inorganic solids, nanoscale materials, polymers, and biological materials, with specific focus on the ways in which atomic-level interactions dictate the bulk properties of matter.
Material Science^Polymeric Materials Polymeric Materials This course is designed for upper division undergraduate and graduate students to gain a fundamental understanding of the science of polymeric materials. Beginning with a treatment of ideal polymeric chain conformations, it develops the thermodynamics of polmyer blends and solutions, the modeling of polymer networks and gelations, the dynamics of polymer chains, and the morphologies of thin films and other dimensionally-restricted structures relevant to nanotechnology.
Material Science^Honors Undergraduate Research Honors Undergraduate Research Students who have completed a satisfactory number of advanced courses with a grade-point average of 3.3 or higher may pursue original research under the direction of one of the members of the staff. A maximum of 3 units of H194 may be used to fulfill technical elective requirements in the Materials Science and Engineering program or double majors (unlike 198 or 199, which do not satisfy technical elective requirements). Final report required.
Material Science^Special Topics for Advanced Undergraduates Special Topics for Advanced Undergraduates Group study of special topics in materials science and engineering. Selection of topics for further study of underlying concepts and relevent literature, in consultion with appropriate faculty members.
Material Science^Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates Group studies of selected topics.
Material Science^Survey of Materials Science Survey of Materials Science A survey of Materials Science at the beginning graduate level, intended for those who did not major in the field as undergraduates. Focus on the nature of microstructure and its manipulation and control to determine engineering properties. Reviews bonding, structure and microstructure, the chemical, electromagnetic and mechanical properties of materials, and introduces the student to microstructural engineering.
Material Science^Thermodynamics and Phase Transformations in Solids Thermodynamics and Phase Transformations in Solids The laws of thermodynamics, fundamental equations for multicomponent elastic solids and electromagnetic media, equilibrium criteria. Application to solution thermodynamics, point defects in solids, phase diagrams. Phase transitions, Landau rule, symmetry rules. Interfaces, nucleation theory, elastic effects. Kinetics: diffusion of heat, mass and charge; coupled flows.
Material Science^Crystal Structure and Bonding Crystal Structure and Bonding Regular, irregular arrays of points, spheres; lattices, direct, reciprocal; crystallographic point and space groups; atomic structure; bonding in molecules; bonding in solids; ionic (Pauling rules), covalent, metallic bonding; structure of elements, compounds, minerals, polymers.
Material Science^Theory of Electron Microscopy and X-Ray Diffraction Theory of Electron Microscopy and X-Ray Diffraction Basic principles of techniques used in the characterization of engineering materials by electron microscopy, diffraction, and spectroscopy; emphasis on detailed analysis of defects responsible for materials properties. Modern electrical, optical and particle beam techniques for characterization of bulk single crystals and their crystalline and amorphous layers. Examples Hall effect, Deep Level Transient Spectroscopy, IR-Spectroscopy.
Material Science^Defects in Solids Defects in Solids Many properties of solid state materials are determined by lattice defects. This course treats in detail the structure of crystal defects, defect formation and annihilation processes, and the influence of lattice defects on the physical and optical properties of crystalline materials.
Material Science^Biological Performance of Materials Biological Performance of Materials This course is intended to give students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of topics related to biomedical materials selection and design. Structure-property relationships of biomedical materials and their interaction with biological systems will be addressed. Applications of the concepts developed include blood-materials compatibility, biomimetic materials, hard and soft tissue-materials interactions, drug delivery, tissue engineering, and biotechnology.
Material Science^Mechanics of Solids Mechanics of Solids Mechanical response of materials: Simple tension in elastic, plastic and viscoelastic members. Continuum mechanics: The stress and strain tensors, equilibrium, compatibility. Three-dimensional elastic, plastic and viscoelastic problems. Thermal, transformation, and dealloying stresses. Applications: Plane problems, stress concentrations at defects, metal forming problems.
Material Science^Deformation and Fracture of Engineering Materials Deformation and Fracture of Engineering Materials This course covers deformation and fracture behavior of engineering materials for both monotonic and cyclic loading conditions.
Material Science^Environmental Effects on Materials Properties and Behavior Environmental Effects on Materials Properties and Behavior Review of electrochemical aspects of corrosion; pitting and crevice corrosion; active/passive transition; fracture mechanics approach to corrosion; stress corrosion cracking; hydrogen embrittlement; liquid metal embrittlement; corrosion fatigue; testing methods.
Material Science^Micromechanics Micromechanics Basic theories, analytical techniques, and mathematical foundations of micromechanics. It includes 1. physical micromechanics, such as mathematical theory of dislocation, and cohesive fracture models; 2. micro-elasticity that includes Eshelby's eigenstrain theory, comparison variational principles, and micro-crack/micro-cavity based damage theory; 3. theoretical composite material that includes the main methodologies in evaluating overall material properties; 4. meso-plasticity that includes meso-damage
Material Science^Computational Materials Science Computational Materials Science Introduction to computational materials science. Development of atomic scale simulations for materials science applications. Application of kinetic Monte Carlo, molecular dynamics, and total energy techniques to the modeling of surface diffusion processes, elastic constants, ideal shear strengths, and defect properties. Introduction to simple numerical methods for solving coupled differential equations and for studying correlations.
Material Science^Macromolecular Science in Biotechnology and Medicine Macromolecular Science in Biotechnology and Medicine Overview of the problems associated with the selection and function of polymers used in biotechnology and medicine. Principles of polymer science, polymer synthesis, and structure-property-performance relationships of polymers. Particular emphasis is placed on the performance of polymers in biological environments. Interactions between macromolecular and biological systems for therapy and diagnosis. Specific applications will include drug delivery, gene therapy, tissue engineering, and surface engineering.
Material Science^Semiconductor Materials Semiconductor Materials Semiconductor purification and crystal growth techniques. Doping, radiation damage, and annealing. Metal-semiconductor interfaces and reactions. Interaction between defects and impurities during processing of devices. Major electronic and optical methods for the analysis of semiconductors.
Material Science^Magnetism and Magnetic Materials Magnetism and Magnetic Materials This course covers the fundamentals of magnetism and magnetic materials in the first two-thirds of the class. Topics include magnetic moments in classical versus quantum mechanical pictures, diamagnetism, paramagnetism, crystal field environments, dipolar and exchange interactions, ferromagnetism, antiferromagnetism, magnetic domains, magnetic anisotropy, and magnetostriction. Magnetic materials covered include transition metals, their alloys and oxides, rare earths and their oxides, organic and
Material Science^Thin-Film Science and Technology Thin-Film Science and Technology Thin-film nucleation and growth, microstructural evolution and reactions. Comparison of thin-film deposition techniques. Characterization techniques. Processing of thin films by ion implantation and rapid annealing. Processing-microstructure-property-performance relationships in the context of applications in information storage, ICs, micro-electromechanical systems and optoelectronics.
Material Science^Photovoltaic Materials; Modern Technologies in the Context of a Growing Renewable Energy Market Photovoltaic Materials; Modern Technologies in the Context of a Growing Renewable Energy Market This technical course focuses on the fundamentals of photovoltaic energy conversion with respect to the physical principals of operation and design of efficient semiconductor solar cell devices. This course aims to equip students with the concepts and analytical skills necessary to assess the utility and viability of various modern photovoltaic technologies in the context of a growing global renewable energy market.
Material Science^Electron Microscopy Laboratory Electron Microscopy Laboratory Basic techniques and operations of transmission, and scanning, electron microscopy; x-ray microanalysis, energy loss spectroscopy; specimen preparation, interpretation of data; individual projects in materials science.
Material Science^Polymer Surfaces and Interfaces Polymer Surfaces and Interfaces The course is designed for graduate students to gain a fundamental understanding of the surface and interfacial science of polymeric materials. Beginning with a brief introduction of the principles governing polymer phase behavior in bulk, it develops the thermodynamics of polymers in thin films and at interfaces, the characterization techniques to assess polymer behavior in thin films and at interfaces, and the morphologies of polymer thin films and other dimensionally-restricted structures relevant
Material Science^Surface Properties of Materials Surface Properties of Materials Thermodynamics of surfaces and phase boundaries, surface tension of solids and liquids, surface activity, adsorption, phase equilibria, and contact angles, electrochemical double layers at interfaces, theory, and applications.
Material Science^Introduction to Nano-Science and Engineering Introduction to Nano-Science and Engineering A three-module introduction to the fundamental topics of Nano-Science and Engineering (NSE) theory and research within chemistry, physics, biology, and engineering. This course includes quantum and solid-state physics; chemical synthesis, growth fabrication, and characterization techniques; structures and properties of semiconductors, polymer, and biomedical materials on nanoscales; and devices based on nanostructures. Students must take this course to satisfy the NSE Designated Emphasis core requirement.
Material Science^Modeling and Simulation of Advanced Manufacturing Processes Modeling and Simulation of Advanced Manufacturing Processes This course provides the student with a modern introduction to the basic industrial practices, modeling techniques, theoretical background, and computational methods to treat classical and cutting edge manufacturing processes in a coherent and self-consistent manner.
Material Science^Computational Design of Multifunctional/Multiphysical Composite Materials Computational Design of Multifunctional/Multiphysical Composite Materials The course is self-contained and is designed in an interdisciplinary manner for graduate students in engineering, materials science, physics, and applied mathematics who are interested in methods to accelerate the laboratory analysis and design of new materials. Examples draw primarily from various mechanical, thermal, diffusive, and electromagnetic applications.
Material Science^Special Topics in Materials Science Special Topics in Materials Science Lectures and appropriate assignments on fundatmental or applied topics of current interest in materials science and engineering.
Material Science^Special Problems in Materials Science Special Problems in Materials Science Selected topics in the thermodynamic, kinetic or phase transformation behavior of solid materials. Topics will generally be selected based on student interest in Mat Sci 201A-201B. The course provides an opportunity to explore subjects of particular interest in greater depth.
Material Science^Independent Research for Five-Year BS/MS Program Independent Research for Five-Year BS/MS Program This is the first semester of a two-course sequence for those majors in the five year BS/MS program. Students are expected to formulate, develop and initiate an independent research project under the supervision of a research advisor. This course will meet once at the beginning of the semester to outline the expectations of the course. Periodic meetings covering topics such as maintaining a lab notebook, effective oral communication, and writing a journal publication will be scheduled. Students
Material Science^Independent Research for Five-Year BS/MS Program Independent Research for Five-Year BS/MS Program This is the second semester of a two-course sequence for those majors in the five year BS/MS program. Students are expected to complete an independent research project under the supervision of a research advisor initiated in Materials Science and Engineering 296A. This course will meet once at the beginning of the semester to outline the expectations of the course. Periodic meetings covering topics such as data analysis and design of experiment will be scheduled. Students will be expected to keep
Material Science^Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Group Studies, Seminars, or Group Research Advanced study in various subjects through special seminars on topics to be selected each year, informal group studies of special problems, group participation in comprehensive design problems or group research on complete problems for analysis and experimentation.
Material Science^Individual Study or Research Individual Study or Research Individual investigation of advanced materials science problems.
Material Science^Science and Engineering Pedagogy Science and Engineering Pedagogy Discussion and research of pedagogical issues. Supervised practice teaching in materials science and engineering.
Material Science^Supervised Teaching of Materials Science and Engineering Supervised Teaching of Materials Science and Engineering Disucssion and research of pedagogical issues. Supervised practice teaching in Materials and Science and Engineering.
Material Science^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for the comprehensive or language requirements in consultation with the field adviser.
Neuroscience^The Aging Human Brain The Aging Human Brain The course will survey the field of the human brain, with introductory lectures on the concepts of aging, and brief surveys of normal neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neurochemistry, and neuropsychology as well as methods such as imaging, epidemiology, and pathology. The neurobiological changes associated with aging will be covered from the same perspectives: neuropsychology, anatomy, biochemistry, and physiology. Major neurological diseases of aging including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease will
Neuroscience^Biological and Public Health Aspects of Alzheimer's Disease Biological and Public Health Aspects of Alzheimer's Disease This course will survey the field of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from a biological and public health perspective by reading original research papers in the fields of medicine, neuroscience, and epidemiology. The course will begin with a historical survey of the concept of AD, followed by a description of clinical and neuropathological features. Subsequent classes will cover the genetics and molecular biology of the disease, as well as biomarkers, epidemiology, risk factors, treatment, development of
Neuroscience^Introduction to Neurobiology Introduction to Neurobiology An introductory course designed to provide a general understanding of the nervous system including how it functions, how it develops, and how it changes with learning and memory. Analysis from the level of molecules to cells to simple circuits to complex networks to higher brain functions.
Neuroscience^Advanced Cellular Neurobiology Advanced Cellular Neurobiology Physical-chemical basis of membrane potentials, electrotonus, action potential generation and propagation, synaptic transmission, sensory receptor function, and volume conductor potentials.
Neuroscience^Advanced Topics in Systems Neuroscience Advanced Topics in Systems Neuroscience Advanced coverage of current research problems in systems-level neuroscience, and experimental and computational techniques used for these studies.
Neuroscience^Advanced Developmental Neurobiology Advanced Developmental Neurobiology Advanced level coverage of current research problems in the embryonic and post-embryonic development of invertebrate and vertebrate nervous systems.
Neuroscience^Neural Computation Neural Computation This course provides an introduction to the theory of neural computation. The goal is to familiarize students with the major theoretical frameworks and models used in neuroscience and psychology, and to provide hands-on experience in using these models. Topics include neural network models, supervised and unsupervised learning rules, associative memory models, probabilistic/graphical models, and models of neural coding in the brain.
Neuroscience^Neuroscience First Year Research Neuroscience First Year Research Seminar on the presentation and evaluation of research results for first-year neuroscience graduate students. During the first weeks, faculty present their research (FERPS); later, students present individual research results and evaluate their own and each other's work. Course enrollment limited to 15.
Neuroscience^Neuroscience Introduction to Research Neuroscience Introduction to Research Closely supervised, intensive laboratory experimental research under the direction of an individual faculty member. For first-year neuroscience graduate students, this course will provide an introduction to experimental methods and research approaches in the different areas of neuroscience. Grade awarded on completion of sequence, which includes 3 ten-week laboratory rotations spread out over the fall and spring semesters.
Neuroscience^Neuroscience Introduction to Research Neuroscience Introduction to Research Closely supervised, intensive laboratory experimental research under the direction of an individual faculty member. For first-year neuroscience graduate students, this course will provide an introduction to experimental methods and research approaches in the different areas of neuroscience. Grade awarded on completion of sequence, which includes 3 ten-week laboratory rotations spread out over the fall and spring semesters.
Neuroscience^Neuroscience Graduate Research Neuroscience Graduate Research For graduate students in neuroscience in their second or later years. During the summer, the course will count for 3-6 units. Individual research under faculty supervision. In this course each graduate student conducts basic thesis and dissertation research after successful completion of the first-year laboratory rotation, Neuroscience 291A-291B. Laboratory work provides the basis for students' thesis research, preparation for the preliminary examination, and continued progress toward completion
Neuroscience^Neuroscience Research Review Neuroscience Research Review For graduate students in neuroscience in their second or later years. Two hours of seminar per week which complements the individual laboratory work under faculty supervision. Seminar will review current scientific literature and discuss original research performed by faculty, postdoctoral fellows, scientists, and graduate students in individual faculty laboratories.
Neuroscience^Neuroscience Graduate Student Presentation Seminar Neuroscience Graduate Student Presentation Seminar This course will encompass three important facets of graduate education in the neurosciences: 1) Development of research presentation skills: fourth and fifth year graduate students will present seminars based on their ongoing dissertation research. Preparation and critiques of presentations will focus on organization of conceptual issues, data presentation, and summarization. 2) Exposure to current topics in neuroscience: faculty speakers will present on current issues and topics relevant to scientific
Neuroscience^Seminars Seminars Course that focuses on topical subjects in specific fields of neuroscience.
Math^Calculus Calculus This sequence is intended for majors in engineering and the physical sciences. An introduction to differential and integral calculus of functions of one variable, with applications and an introduction to transcendental functions.
Math^Calculus Calculus Continuation of 1A. Techniques of integration; applications of integration. Infinite sequences and series. First-order ordinary differential equations. Second-order ordinary differential equations; oscillation and damping; series solutions of ordinary differential equations.
Math^Honors Calculus Honors Calculus Honors version of 1B. Continuation of 1A. Techniques of integration; applications of integration. Infinite sequences and series. First-order ordinary differential equations. Second-order ordinary differential equations; oscillation and damping; series solutions of ordinary differential equations.
Math^Methods of Mathematics: Calculus, Statistics, and Combinatorics Methods of Mathematics: Calculus, Statistics, and Combinatorics This sequence is intended for majors in the life sciences. Introduction to differential and integral calculus of functions of one variable. Representation of data, elementary probability theory, statistical models, and testing.
Math^Methods of Mathematics: Calculus, Statistics, and Combinatorics Methods of Mathematics: Calculus, Statistics, and Combinatorics Elementary combinatorics and discrete probability theory. Introduction to graphs, matrix algebra, linear equations, difference equations, and differential equations.
Math^Analytic Geometry and Calculus Analytic Geometry and Calculus This sequence is intended for majors in the life and social sciences. Calculus of one variable; derivatives, definite integrals and applications, maxima and minima, and applications of the exponential and logarithmic functions.
Math^Analytic Geometry and Calculus Analytic Geometry and Calculus Continuation of 16A. Application of integration of economics and life sciences. Differential equations. Functions of many variables. Partial derivatives, constrained and unconstrained optimization.
Math^Precalculus Precalculus Polynomial and rational functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, trigonometry and trigonometric functions. Complex numbers, fundamental theorem of algebra, mathematical induction, binomial theorem, series, and sequences.
Math^Supplementary Work in Lower Division Mathematics Supplementary Work in Lower Division Mathematics Students with partial credit in lower division mathematics courses may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit under this heading.
Math^Multivariable Calculus Multivariable Calculus Parametric equations and polar coordinates. Vectors in 2- and 3-dimensional Euclidean spaces. Partial derivatives. Multiple integrals. Vector calculus. Theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes.
Math^Honors Multivariable Calculus Honors Multivariable Calculus Honors version of 53. Parametric equations and polar coordinates. Vectors in 2- and 3-dimensional Euclidean spaces. Partial derivatives. Multiple integrals. Vector calculus. Theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes.
Math^Multivariable Calculus Multivariable Calculus Parametric equations and polar coordinates. Vectors in 2- and 3-dimensional Euclidean spaces. Partial derivatives. Multiple integrals. Vector calculus. Theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes.
Math^Linear Algebra and Differential Equations Linear Algebra and Differential Equations Basic linear algebra; matrix arithmetic and determinants. Vector spaces; inner product as spaces. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors; linear transformations. Homogeneous ordinary differential equations; first-order differential equations with constant coefficients. Fourier series and partial differential equations.
Math^Honors Linear Algebra and Differential Equations Honors Linear Algebra and Differential Equations Honors version of 54. Basic linear algebra: matrix arithmetic and determinants. Vectors spaces; inner product spaces. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors; linear transformations. Homogeneous ordinary differential equations; first-order differential equations with constant coefficients. Fourier series and partial differential equations.
Math^Discrete Mathematics Discrete Mathematics Logic, mathematical induction sets, relations, and functions. Introduction to graphs, elementary number theory, combinatorics, algebraic structures, and discrete probability theory.
Math^Transition to Upper Division Mathematics Transition to Upper Division Mathematics The course will focus on reading and understanding mathematical proofs. It will emphasize precise thinking and the presentation of mathematical results, both orally and in written form. The course is intended for students who are considering majoring in mathematics but wish additional training.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics Topics to be covered and the method of instruction to be used will be announced at the beginning of each semester that such courses are offered. See department bulletins.
Math^College Algebra College Algebra Elements of college algebra. Designed for students who do not meet the prerequisites for 32. Offered through the Student Learning Center.
Math^Supervised Group Study Supervised Group Study Directed Group Study, topics vary with instructor.
Math^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Math^Introduction to Mathematical Economics Introduction to Mathematical Economics Selected topics illustrating the application of mathematics to economic theory. This course is intended for upper-division students in Mathematics, Statistics, the Physical Sciences, and Engineering, and for economics majors with adequate mathematical preparation. No economic background is required.
Math^Introduction to Analysis Introduction to Analysis The real number system. Sequences, limits, and continuous functions in R and R. The concept of a metric space. Uniform convergence, interchange of limit operations. Infinite series. Mean value theorem and applications. The Riemann integral.
Math^Honors Introduction to Analysis Honors Introduction to Analysis Honors section corresponding to 104. Recommended for students who enjoy mathematics and are good at it. Greater emphasis on theory and challenging problems.
Math^Second Course in Analysis Second Course in Analysis Differential calculus in Rn: the derivative as a linear map; the chain rule; inverse and implicit function theorems. Lebesgue integration on the line; comparison of Lebesgue and Riemann integrals. Convergence theorems. Fourier series, L2 theory. Fubini's theorem, change of variable.
Math^Linear Algebra Linear Algebra Matrices, vector spaces, linear transformations, inner products, determinants. Eigenvectors. QR factorization. Quadratic forms and Rayleigh's principle. Jordan canonical form, applications. Linear functionals.
Math^Honors Linear Algebra Honors Linear Algebra Honors section corresponding to course 110 for exceptional students with strong mathematical inclination and motivation. Emphasis is on rigor, depth, and hard problems.
Math^Introduction to Abstract Algebra Introduction to Abstract Algebra Sets and relations. The integers, congruences, and the Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic. Groups and their factor groups. Commutative rings, ideals, and quotient fields. The theory of polynomials: Euclidean algorithm and unique factorizations. The Fundamental Theorem of Algebra. Fields and field extensions.
Math^Honors Introduction to Abstract Algebra Honors Introduction to Abstract Algebra Honors section corresponding to 113. Recommended for students who enjoy mathematics and are good at it. Greater emphasis on theory and challenging problems.
Math^Second Course in Abstract Algebra Second Course in Abstract Algebra Further topics on groups, rings, and fields not covered in Math 113. Possible topics include the Sylow Theorems and their applications to group theory; classical groups; abelian groups and modules over a principal ideal domain; algebraic field extensions; splitting fields and Galois theory; construction and classification of finite fields.
Math^Introduction to Number Theory Introduction to Number Theory Divisibility, congruences, numerical functions, theory of primes. Topics selected: Diophantine analysis, continued fractions, partitions, quadratic fields, asymptotic distributions, additive problems.
Math^Cryptography Cryptography Construction and analysis of simple cryptosystems, public key cryptography, RSA, signature schemes, key distribution, hash functions, elliptic curves, and applications.
Math^Fourier Analysis, Wavelets, and Signal Processing Fourier Analysis, Wavelets, and Signal Processing Introduction to signal processing including Fourier analysis and wavelets. Theory, algorithms, and applications to one-dimensional signals and multidimensional images.
Math^Mathematical Tools for the Physical Sciences Mathematical Tools for the Physical Sciences Intended for students in the physical sciences who are not planning to take more advanced mathematics courses. Rapid review of series and partial differentiation, complex variables and analytic functions, integral transforms, calculus of variations.
Math^Mathematical Tools for the Physical Sciences Mathematical Tools for the Physical Sciences Intended for students in the physical sciences who are not planning to take more advanced mathematics courses. Special functions, series solutions of ordinary differential equations, partial differential equations arising in mathematical physics, probability theory.
Math^Ordinary Differential Equations Ordinary Differential Equations Existence and uniqueness of solutions, linear systems, regular singular points. Other topics selected from analytic systems, autonomous systems, Sturm-Liouville Theory.
Math^Mathematical Logic Mathematical Logic Sentential and quantificational logic. Formal grammar, semantical interpretation, formal deduction, and their interrelation. Applications to formalized mathematical theories. Selected topics from model theory or proof theory.
Math^Introduction to Partial Differential Equations Introduction to Partial Differential Equations Waves and diffusion, initial value problems for hyperbolic and parabolic equations, boundary value problems for elliptic equations, Green's functions, maximum principles, a priori bounds, Fourier transform.
Math^Mathematical and Computational Methods in Molecular Biology Mathematical and Computational Methods in Molecular Biology Introduction to mathematical and computational problems arising in the context of molecular biology. Theory and applications of combinatorics, probability, statistics, geometry, and topology to problems ranging from sequence determination to structure analysis.
Math^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis Programming for numerical calculations, round-off error, approximation and interpolation, numerical quadrature, and solution of ordinary differential equations. Practice on the computer.
Math^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis Iterative solution of systems of nonlinear equations, evaluation of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of matrices, applications to simple partial differential equations. Practice on the computer.
Math^The Classical Geometries The Classical Geometries A critical examination of Euclid's Elements; ruler and compass constructions; connections with Galois theory; Hilbert's axioms for geometry, theory of areas, introduction of coordinates, non-Euclidean geometry, regular solids, projective geometry.
Math^Introduction to the Theory of Sets Introduction to the Theory of Sets Set-theoretical paradoxes and means of avoiding them. Sets, relations, functions, order and well-order. Proof by transfinite induction and definitions by transfinite recursion. Cardinal and ordinal numbers and their arithmetic. Construction of the real numbers. Axiom of choice and its consequences.
Math^Incompleteness and Undecidability Incompleteness and Undecidability Functions computable by algorithm, Turing machines, Church's thesis. Unsolvability of the halting problem, Rice's theorem. Recursively enumerable sets, creative sets, many-one reductions. Self-referential programs. Godel's incompleteness theorems, undecidability of validity, decidable and undecidable theories.
Math^Metric Differential Geometry Metric Differential Geometry Frenet formulas, isoperimetric inequality, local theory of surfaces in Euclidean space, first and second fundamental forms. Gaussian and mean curvature, isometries, geodesics, parallelism, the Gauss-Bonnet-Von Dyck Theorem.
Math^Elementary Differential Topology Elementary Differential Topology Manifolds in n-dimensional Euclidean space and smooth maps, Sard's Theorem, classification of compact one-manifolds, transversality and intersection modulo 2.
Math^Elementary Algebraic Topology Elementary Algebraic Topology The topology of one and two dimensional spaces: manifolds and triangulation, classification of surfaces, Euler characteristic, fundamental groups, plus further topics at the discretion of the instructor.
Math^Elementary Algebraic Geometry Elementary Algebraic Geometry Introduction to basic commutative algebra, algebraic geometry, and computational techniques. Main focus on curves, surfaces and Grassmannian varieties.
Math^Mathematics of the Secondary School Curriculum I Mathematics of the Secondary School Curriculum I Theory of rational numbers based on the number line, the Euclidean algorithm and fractions in lowest terms. The concepts of congruence and similarity, equation of a line, functions, and quadratic functions.
Math^Mathematics of the Secondary School Curriculum II Mathematics of the Secondary School Curriculum II Complex numbers and Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, roots and factorizations of polynomials, Euclidean geometry and axiomatic systems, basic trigonometry.
Math^Mathematics of the Secondary School Curriculum III Mathematics of the Secondary School Curriculum III The real line and least upper bound, limit and decimal expansion of a number, differentiation and integration, Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, characterizations of sine, cosine, exp, and log.
Math^History of Mathematics History of Mathematics History of algebra, geometry, analytic geometry, and calculus from ancient times through the seventeenth century and selected topics from more recent mathematical history.
Math^Mathematical Methods for Optimization Mathematical Methods for Optimization Linear programming and a selection of topics from among the following: matrix games, integer programming, semidefinite programming, nonlinear programming, convex analysis and geometry, polyhedral geometry, the calculus of variations, and control theory.
Math^Combinatorics Combinatorics Basic combinatorial principles, graphs, partially ordered sets, generating functions, asymptotic methods, combinatorics of permutations and partitions, designs and codes. Additional topics at the discretion of the instructor.
Math^Introduction to Complex Analysis Introduction to Complex Analysis Analytic functions of a complex variable. Cauchy's integral theorem, power series, Laurent series, singularities of analytic functions, the residue theorem with application to definite integrals. Some additional topics such as conformal mapping.
Math^Honors Introduction to Complex Analysis Honors Introduction to Complex Analysis Honors section corresponding to Math 185 for exceptional students with strong mathematical inclination and motivation. Emphasis is on rigor, depth, and hard problems.
Math^Mathematical Methods in Classical and Quantum Mechanics Mathematical Methods in Classical and Quantum Mechanics Topics in mechanics presented from a mathematical viewpoint: e.g., hamiltonian mechanics and symplectic geometry, differential equations for fluids, spectral theory in quantum mechanics, probability theory and statistical mechanics. See department bulletins for specific topics each semester course is offered.
Math^Experimental Courses in Mathematics Experimental Courses in Mathematics The topics to be covered and the method of instruction to be used will be announced at the beginning of each semester that such courses are offered. See departmental bulletins.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics Lectures on special topics, which will be announced at the beginning of each semester that the course is offered.
Math^Honors Thesis Honors Thesis Independent study of an advanced topic leading to an honors thesis.
Math^Field Study Field Study For Math/Applied math majors. Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of their mathematical emphasis of study in off-campus organizations. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required. Units will be awarded on the basis of three hours/week/unit.
Math^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Math^Introduction to Topology and Analysis Introduction to Topology and Analysis Metric spaces and general topological spaces. Compactness and connectedness. Characterization of compact metric spaces. Theorems of Tychonoff, Urysohn, Tietze. Complete spaces and the Baire category theorem. Function spaces; Arzela-Ascoli and Stone-Weierstrass theorems. Partitions of unity. Locally compact spaces; one-point compactification. Introduction to measure and integration. Sigma algebras of sets. Measures and outer measures. Lebesgue measure on the line and Rn. Construction of the integral.
Math^Introduction to Topology and Analysis Introduction to Topology and Analysis Measure and integration. Product measures and Fubini-type theorems. Signed measures; Hahn and Jordan decompositions. Radon-Nikodym theorem. Integration on the line and in Rn. Differentiation of the integral. Hausdorff measures. Fourier transform. Introduction to linear topological spaces, Banach spaces and Hilbert spaces. Banach-Steinhaus theorem; closed graph theorem. Hahn-Banach theorem. Duality; the dual of LP. Measures on locally compact spaces; the dual of C(X). Weak and weak-* topologies;
Math^Asymptotic Analysis in Applied Mathematics Asymptotic Analysis in Applied Mathematics Asymptotic methods for differential equations, with emphasis upon many physical examples. Topics will include matched asymptotic expansions, Laplace's method, stationary phase, boundary layers, multiple scales, WKB approximations, asymptotic Lagrangians, bifurcation theory.
Math^Ordinary Differential Equations Ordinary Differential Equations Rigorous theory of ordinary differential equations. Fundamental existence theorems for initial and boundary value problems, variational equilibria, periodic coefficients and Floquet Theory, Green's functions, eigenvalue problems, Sturm-Liouville theory, phase plane analysis, Poincare-Bendixon Theorem, bifurcation, chaos.
Math^Theory of Functions of a Complex Variable Theory of Functions of a Complex Variable Normal families. Riemann Mapping Theorem. Picard's theorem and related theorems. Multiple-valued analytic functions and Riemann surfaces. Further topics selected by the instructor may include: harmonic functions, elliptic and algebraic functions, boundary behavior of analytic functions and HP spaces, the Riemann zeta functions, prime number theorem.
Math^Banach Algebras and Spectral Theory Banach Algebras and Spectral Theory Banach algebras. Spectrum of a Banach algebra element. Gelfand theory of commutative Banach algebras. Analytic functional calculus. Hilbert space operators. C*-algebras of operators. Commutative C*-algebras. Spectral theorem for bounded self-adjoint and normal operators (both forms: the spectral integral and the "multiplication operator" formulation). Riesz theory of compact operators. Hilbert-Schmidt operators. Fredholm operators. The Fredholm index. Selected additional topics.
Math^C*-algebras C*-algebras Basic theory of C*-algebras. Positivity, spectrum, GNS construction. Group C*-algebras and connection with group representations. Additional topics, for example, C*-dynamical systems, K-theory.
Math^Von Neumann Algebras Von Neumann Algebras Basic theory of von Neumann algebras. Density theorems, topologies and normal maps, traces, comparison of projections, type classification, examples of factors. Additional topics, for example, Tomita Takasaki theory, subfactors, group actions, and noncommutative probability.
Math^Several Complex Variables Several Complex Variables Power series developments, domains of holomorphy, Hartogs' phenomenon, pseudo convexity and plurisubharmonicity. The remainder of the course may treat either sheaf cohomology and Stein manifolds, or the theory of analytic subvarieties and spaces.
Math^Differentiable Manifolds Differentiable Manifolds Smooth manifolds and maps, tangent and normal bundles. Sard's theorem and transversality, Whitney embedding theorem. Morse functions, differential forms, Stokes' theorem, Frobenius theorem. Basic degree theory. Flows, Lie derivative, Lie groups and algebras. Additional topics selected by instructor.
Math^Algebraic Topology Algebraic Topology Fundamental group and covering spaces, simplicial and singular homology theory with applications, cohomology theory, duality theorem. Homotopy theory, fibrations, relations between homotopy and homology, obstruction theory, and topics from spectral sequences, cohomology operations, and characteristic classes. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Algebraic Topology Algebraic Topology Fundamental group and covering spaces, simplicial and singular homology theory with applications, cohomology theory, duality theorem. Homotopy theory, fibrations, relations between homotopy and homology, obstruction theory, and topics from spectral sequences, cohomology operations, and characteristic classes. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Probability Theory Probability Theory The course is designed as a sequence with Statistics C205B/Mathematics C218B with the following combined syllabus. Measure theory concepts needed for probability. Expection, distributions. Laws of large numbers and central limit theorems for independent random variables. Characteristic function methods. Conditional expectations, martingales and martingale convergence theorems. Markov chains. Stationary processes. Brownian motion.
Math^Probability Theory Probability Theory The course is designed as a sequence with with Statistics C205A/Mathematics C218A with the following combined syllabus. Measure theory concepts needed for probability. Expection, distributions. Laws of large numbers and central limit theorems for independent random variables. Characteristic function methods. Conditional expectations, martingales and martingale convergence theorems. Markov chains. Stationary processes. Brownian motion.
Math^Dynamical Systems Dynamical Systems Diffeomorphisms and flows on manifolds. Ergodic theory. Stable manifolds, generic properties, structural stability. Additional topics selected by the instructor.
Math^Introduction to Probabilistic Methods in Mathematics and the Sciences Introduction to Probabilistic Methods in Mathematics and the Sciences Brownian motion, Langevin and Fokker-Planck equations, path integrals and Feynman diagrams, time series, an introduction to statistical mechanics, Monte Carlo methods, selected applications.
Math^Advanced Matrix Computations Advanced Matrix Computations Direct solution of linear systems, including large sparse systems: error bounds, iteration methods, least square approximation, eigenvalues and eigenvectors of matrices, nonlinear equations, and minimization of functions.
Math^Partial Differential Equations Partial Differential Equations The theory of boundary value and initial value problems for partial differential equations, with emphasis on nonlinear equations. Laplace's equation, heat equation, wave equation, nonlinear first-order equations, conservation laws, Hamilton-Jacobi equations, Fourier transform, Sobolev spaces.
Math^Partial Differential Equations Partial Differential Equations The theory of boundary value and initial value problems for partial differential equations, with emphasis on nonlinear equations. Second-order elliptic equations, parabolic and hyperbolic equations, calculus of variations methods, additional topics selected by instructor.
Math^Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Process Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Process The topics of this course change each semester, and multiple sections may be offered. Advanced topics in probability offered according to students demand and faculty availability.
Math^Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Processes Advanced Topics in Probability and Stochastic Processes The topics of this course change each semester, and multiple sections may be offered. Advanced topics in probability offered according to students demand and faculty availability.
Math^Mathematical Methods for the Physical Sciences Mathematical Methods for the Physical Sciences Introduction to the theory of distributions. Fourier and Laplace transforms. Partial differential equations. Green's function. Operator theory, with applications to eigenfunction expansions, perturbation theory and linear and non-linear waves. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Mathematical Methods for the Physical Sciences Mathematical Methods for the Physical Sciences Introduction to the theory of distributions. Fourier and Laplace transforms. Partial differential equations. Green's function. Operator theory, with applications to eigenfunction expansions, perturbation theory and linear and non-linear waves. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Metamathematics Metamathematics Metamathematics of predicate logic. Completeness and compactness theorems. Interpolation theorem, definability, theory of models. Metamathematics of number theory, recursive functions, applications to truth and provability. Undecidable theories. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Metamathematics Metamathematics Metamathematics of predicate logic. Completeness and compactness theorems. Interpolation theorem, definability, theory of models. Metamathematics of number theory, recursive functions, applications to truth and provability. Undecidable theories. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Theory of Recursive Functions Theory of Recursive Functions Recursive and recursively enumerable sets of natural numbers; characterizations, significance, and classification. Relativization, degrees of unsolvability. The recursion theorem. Constructive ordinals, the hyperarithmetical and analytical hierarchies. Recursive objects of higher type. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Numerical Solution of Differential Equations Numerical Solution of Differential Equations Ordinary differential equations: Runge-Kutta and predictor-corrector methods; stability theory, Richardson extrapolation, stiff equations, boundary value problems. Partial differential equations: stability, accuracy and convergence, Von Neumann and CFL conditions, finite difference solutions of hyperbolic and parabolic equations. Finite differences and finite element solution of elliptic equations.
Math^Numerical Solution of Differential Equations Numerical Solution of Differential Equations Ordinary differential equations: Runge-Kutta and predictor-corrector methods; stability theory, Richardson extrapolation, stiff equations, boundary value problems. Partial differential equations: stability, accuracy and convergence, Von Neumann and CFL conditions, finite difference solutions of hyperbolic and parabolic equations. Finite differences and finite element solution of elliptic equations.
Math^Theory of Models Theory of Models Syntactical characterization of classes closed under algebraic operations. Ultraproducts and ultralimits, saturated models. Methods for establishing decidability and completeness. Model theory of various languages richer than first-order.
Math^Theory of Sets Theory of Sets Axiomatic foundations. Operations on sets and relations. Images and set functions. Ordering, well-ordering, and well-founded relations; general principles of induction and recursion. Ranks of sets, ordinals and their arithmetic. Set-theoretical equivalence, similarity of relations; definitions by abstraction. Arithmetic of cardinals. Axiom of choice, equivalent forms, and consequences. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Metamathematics of Set Theory Metamathematics of Set Theory Various set theories: comparison of strength, transitive, and natural models, finite axiomatizability. Independence and consistency of axiom of choice, continuum hypothesis, etc. The measure problem and axioms of strong infinity.
Math^Discrete Mathematics for the Life Sciences Discrete Mathematics for the Life Sciences Introduction to algebraic statistics and probability, optimization, phylogenetic combinatorics, graphs and networks, polyhedral and metric geometry.
Math^Discrete Mathematics for the Life Sciences Discrete Mathematics for the Life Sciences Introduction to algebraic statistics and probability, optimization, phylogenetic combinatorics, graphs and networks, polyhedral and metric geometry.
Math^Riemannian Geometry Riemannian Geometry Riemannian metric and Levi-Civita connection, geodesics and completeness, curvature, first and second variations of arc length. Additional topics such as the theorems of Myers, Synge, and Cartan-Hadamard, the second fundamental form, convexity and rigidity of hypersurfaces in Euclidean space, homogeneous manifolds, the Gauss-Bonnet theorem, and characteristic classes.
Math^Complex Manifolds Complex Manifolds Riemann surfaces, divisors and line bundles on Riemann surfaces, sheaves and the Dolbeault theorem on Riemann surfaces, the classical Riemann-Roch theorem, theorem of Abel-Jacobi. Complex manifolds, Kahler metrics. Summary of Hodge theory, groups of line bundles, additional topics such as Kodaira's vanishing theorem, Lefschetz hyperplane theorem.
Math^Symplectic Geometry Symplectic Geometry Basic topics: symplectic linear algebra, symplectic manifolds, Darboux theorem, cotangent bundles, variational problems and Legendre transform, hamiltonian systems, Lagrangian submanifolds, Poisson brackets, symmetry groups and momentum mappings, coadjoint orbits, Kahler manifolds.
Math^Seq: Methods and Applications Seq: Methods and Applications A graduate seminar class in which a group of students will closely examine recent computational methods in high-throughput sequencing followed by directly examining interesting biological applications thereof.
Math^General Theory of Algebraic Structures General Theory of Algebraic Structures Structures defined by operations and/or relations, and their homomorphisms. Classes of structures determined by identities. Constructions such as free objects, objects presented by generators and relations, ultraproducts, direct limits. Applications of general results to groups, rings, lattices, etc. Course may emphasize study of congruence- and subalgebra-lattices, or category-theory and adjoint functors, or other aspects.
Math^Algebraic Combinatorics Algebraic Combinatorics (I) Enumeration, generating functions and exponential structures, (II) Posets and lattices, (III) Geometric combinatorics, (IV) Symmetric functions, Young tableaux, and connections with representation theory. Further study of applications of the core material and/or additional topics, chosen by instructor.
Math^Groups, Rings, and Fields Groups, Rings, and Fields Group theory, including the Jordan-Holder theorem and the Sylow theorems. Basic theory of rings and their ideals. Unique factorization domains and principal ideal domains. Modules. Chain conditions. Fields, including fundamental theorem of Galois theory, theory of finite fields, and transcendence degree.
Math^Multilinear Algebra and Further Topics Multilinear Algebra and Further Topics Tensor algebras and exterior algebras, with application to linear transformations. Commutative ideal theory, localization. Elementary specialization and valuation theory. Related topics in algebra.
Math^Ring Theory Ring Theory Topics such as: Noetherian rings, rings with descending chain condition, theory of the radical, homological methods.
Math^Representation Theory Representation Theory Structure of finite dimensional algebras, applications to representations of finite groups, the classical linear groups.
Math^Homological Algebra Homological Algebra Modules over a ring, homomorphisms and tensor products of modules, functors and derived functors, homological dimension of rings and modules.
Math^Number Theory Number Theory Valuations, units, and ideals in number fields, ramification theory, quadratic and cyclotomic fields, topics from class field theory, zeta-functions and L-series, distribution of primes, modular forms, quadratic forms, diophantine equations, P-adic analysis, and transcendental numbers. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Number Theory Number Theory Valuations, units, and ideals in number fields, ramification theory, quadratic and cyclotomic fields, topics from class field theory, zeta-functions and L-series, distribution of primes, modular forms, quadratic forms, diophantine equations, P-adic analysis, and transcendental numbers. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Algebraic Curves Algebraic Curves Elliptic curves. Algebraic curves, Riemann surfaces, and function fields. Singularities. Riemann-Roch theorem, Hurwitz's theorem, projective embeddings and the canonical curve. Zeta functions of curves over finite fields. Additional topics such as Jacobians or the Riemann hypothesis.
Math^Algebraic Geometry Algebraic Geometry Affine and projective algebraic varieties. Theory of schemes and morphisms of schemes. Smoothness and differentials in algebraic geometry. Coherent sheaves and their cohomology. Riemann-Roch theorem and selected applications. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Algebraic Geometry Algebraic Geometry Affine and projective algebraic varieties. Theory of schemes and morphisms of schemes. Smoothness and differentials in algebraic geometry. Coherent sheaves and their cohomology. Riemann-Roch theorem and selected applications. Sequence begins fall.
Math^Group Theory Group Theory Topics such as: generators and relations, infinite discrete groups, groups of Lie type, permutation groups, character theory, solvable groups, simple groups, transfer and cohomological methods.
Math^Classical Harmonic Analysis Classical Harmonic Analysis Basic properties of Fourier series, convergence and summability, conjugate functions, Hardy spaces, boundary behavior of analytic and harmonic functions. Additional topics at the discretion of the instructor.
Math^Lie Groups Lie Groups Lie groups and Lie algebras, fundamental theorems of Lie, general structure theory; compact, nilpotent, solvable, semi-simple Lie groups; classification theory and representation theory of semi-simple Lie algebras and Lie groups, further topics such as symmetric spaces, Lie transformation groups, etc., if time permits. In view of its simplicity and its wide range of applications, it is preferable to cover compact Lie groups and their representations in 261A. Sequence begins Fall.
Math^Lie Groups Lie Groups Lie groups and Lie algebras, fundamental theorems of Lie, general structure theory; compact, nilpotent, solvable, semi-simple Lie groups; classification theory and representation theory of semi-simple Lie algebras and Lie groups, further topics such as symmetric spaces, Lie transformation groups, etc., if time permits. In view of its simplicity and its wide range of applications, it is preferable to cover compact Lie groups and their representations in 261A. Sequence begins Fall.
Math^Differential Topology Differential Topology Approximations, degrees of maps, vector bundles, tubular neighborhoods. Introduction to Morse theory, handlebodies, cobordism, surgery. Additional topics selected by instructor from: characteristic classes, classification of manifolds, immersions, embeddings, singularities of maps.
Math^Hot Topics Course in Mathematics Hot Topics Course in Mathematics This course will give introductions to current research developments. Every semester we will pick a different topic and go through the relevant literature. Each student will be expected to give one presentation.
Math^Topics in Numerical Analysis: Topics in Computational Physics Topics in Numerical Analysis: Topics in Computational Physics Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Numerical Analysis: Approximation Theory Topics in Numerical Analysis: Approximation Theory Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Algebra Topics in Algebra Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Applied Mathematics Topics in Applied Mathematics Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Topology Topics in Topology Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Differential Geometry Topics in Differential Geometry Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Analysis Topics in Analysis Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Topics in Partial Differential Equations Topics in Partial Differential Equations Advanced topics chosen by the instructor. The content of this course changes, as in the case of seminars.
Math^Seminars Seminars Topics in foundations of mathematics, theory of numbers, numerical calculations, analysis, geometry, topology, algebra, and their applications, by means of lectures and informal conferences; work based largely on original memoirs.
Math^Individual Research Individual Research Intended for candidates for the Ph.D. degree.
Math^Reading Course for Graduate Students Reading Course for Graduate Students Investigation of special problems under the direction of members of the department.
Math^Undergraduate Mathematics Instruction Undergraduate Mathematics Instruction May be taken for one unit by special permission of instructor. Tutoring at the Student Learning Center or for the Professional Development Program.
Math^Teaching Workshop Teaching Workshop Mandatory for all graduate student instructors teaching summer course for the first time in the Department. The course consists of practice teaching, alternatives to standard classroom methods, guided group and self-analysis, classroom visitations by senior faculty member.
Math^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Mathematics Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Mathematics Meeting with supervising faculty and with discussion sections. Experience in teaching under the supervision of Mathematics faculty.
Math^Teaching Workshop Teaching Workshop Mandatory for all graduate student instructors teaching for the first time in the Mathematics Department. The course consists of practice teaching, alternatives to standard classroom methods, guided group and self-analysis of videotapes, reciprocal classroom visitations, and an individual project.
Math^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for the comprehensive or language requirements in consultation with the field adviser.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers Physics for Scientists and Engineers Mechanics and wave motion.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers Physics for Scientists and Engineers Heat, electricity, and magnetism.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers Physics for Scientists and Engineers Electromagnetic waves, optics, relativity, and quantum physics.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers Physics for Scientists and Engineers Honors sequence corresponding to 7A-7B-7C, but with a greater emphasis on theory as opposed to problem solving. Recommended for those students who have had advanced Physics on the high school level and who are intending to declare a major in physics. Entrance into H7A is decided on the basis of performance on an examination given during the first week of class or the consent of the instructor, and into H7B-H7C on performance in previous courses in a standard sequence.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers Physics for Scientists and Engineers Honors sequence corresponding to 7A-7B-7C, but with a greater emphasis on theory as opposed to problem solving. Recommended for those students who have had advanced Physics on the high school level and who are intending to declare a major in physics. Entrance into H7A is decided on the basis of performance on an examination given during the first week of class or the consent of the instructor, and into H7B-H7C on performance in previous courses in a standard sequence.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers Physics for Scientists and Engineers Honors sequence corresponding to 7A-7B-7C, but with a greater emphasis on theory as opposed to problem solving. Recommended for those students who have had advanced Physics on the high school level and who are intending to declare a major in physics. Entrance into H7A is decided on the basis of performance on an examination given during the first week of class or the consent of the instructor, and into H7B-H7C on performance in previous courses in a standard sequence.
Physics^Introductory Physics Introductory Physics Introduction to forces, kinetics, equilibria, fluids, waves, and heat. This course presents concepts and methodologies for understanding physical phenomena, and is particularly useful preparation for upper division study in biology and architecture.
Physics^Introductory Physics Introductory Physics Introduction to electricity, magnetism, electromagnetic waves, optics, and modern physics. The course presents concepts and methodologies for understanding physical phenomena, and is particularly useful preparation for upper division study in biology and architecture.
Physics^Descriptive Introduction to Physics Descriptive Introduction to Physics The most interesting and important topics in physics, stressing conceptual understanding rather than math, with applications to current events. Topics covered may vary and may include energy and conservation, radioactivity, nuclear physics, the Theory of Relativity, lasers, explosions, earthquakes, superconductors, and quantum physics.
Physics^Physics of Music Physics of Music Physical principles encountered in the study of music. The applicable laws of mechanics, fundamentals of sound, harmonic content, principles of sound production in musical instruments, musical scales. Numerous illustrative lecture demonstrations will be given. Only the basics of high school algebra and geometry will be used.
Physics^Physics and Music Physics and Music What can we learn about the nature of reality and the ways that we humans have invented to discover how the world works? An exploration of these questions through the physical principles encountered in the study of music. The applicable laws of mechanics, fundamentals of sound, harmonic content, principles of sound production in musical instruments, musical scales. Numerous illustrative lecture demonstrations will be given. Only the basics of high school algebra and geometry will be used.
Physics^Lower Division Physics Seminar Lower Division Physics Seminar Enrollment limited to 20 students per section. Physics seminar course designed for both non major students and students considering a major in physics. Topics vary from semester to semester.
Physics^Supplementary Work in Lower Division Physics Supplementary Work in Lower Division Physics Students with partial credit in lower division physics courses may, with consent of instructor, complete the credit under this heading.
Physics^Introduction to Computational Techniques in Physics Introduction to Computational Techniques in Physics Introductory scientific programming in Python with examples from physics. Topics include: visualization, statistics and probability, regression, numerical integration, simulation, data modeling, function approximation, and algebraic systems. Recommended for freshman physics majors.
Physics^Introduction to Mathematical Physics Introduction to Mathematical Physics Complex numbers, linear algebra, ordinary differential equations, Fourier series and transform methods, introduction to partial differential equations, introduction to tensors. Applications to physics will be emphasized. Required for physics major.
Physics^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Physics^Communicating Physics and Physical Science Communicating Physics and Physical Science For undergraduate and graduate students interested in improving their ability to communicate scientific knowledge by teaching science in K-12 schools. The course will combine instruction in inquiry-based science teaching methods and learning pedagogy with 10 weeks of supervised teaching experience in a local school. Students will practice, with support and mentoring, communicating scientific knowledge through presentations and hands-on activities. Approximately three hours per week including time
Physics^Analytic Mechanics Analytic Mechanics Newtonian mechanics, motion of a particle in one, two, and three dimensions, Larange's equations, Hamilton's equations, central force motion, moving coordinate systems, mechanics of continuous media, oscillations, normal modes, rigid body dynamics, tensor analysis techniques.
Physics^Electromagnetism and Optics Electromagnetism and Optics Part I. A course emphasizing electromagnetic theory and applications; charges and currents; electric and magnetic fields; dielectric, conducting, and magnetic media; relativity, Maxwell equations. Wave propagation in media, radiation and scattering, Fourier optics, interference and diffraction, ray optics and applications.
Physics^Electromagnetism and Optics Electromagnetism and Optics Part II. A course emphasizing electromagnetic theory and applications; charges and currents; electric and magnetic fields; dielectric, conducting, and magnetic media; relativity, Maxwell equations. Wave propagation in media, radiation and scattering, Fourier optics, interference and diffraction, ray optics and applications.
Physics^Modern Physics and Advanced Electrical Laboratory Modern Physics and Advanced Electrical Laboratory The first semester (3 units), on Basic Semiconductor Circuits (BSC), covers introductory analog and digital circuits. The class meets for two 4-hour afternoon lab sessions, and a 1-1/2 hour weekly lecture. In the second semester, Advanced Lab (3 units), students complete 4 of 20+ advanced experiments. These include many in atomic, nuclear, classical, and solid-state physics, among others. Students may, with approval, enroll in an optional third semester for variable units.
Physics^Introduction to Statistical and Thermal Physics Introduction to Statistical and Thermal Physics Basic concepts of statistical mechanics, microscopic basis of thermodynamics and applications to macroscopic systems, condensed states, phase transformations, quantum distributions, elementary kinetic theory of transport processes, fluctuation phenomena.
Physics^Particle Physics Particle Physics Tools of particle and nuclear physics. Properties, classification, and interaction of particles including the quark-gluon constituents of hadrons. High energy phenomena analyzed by quantum mechanical methods. Course will survey the field including some related topics in nuclear physics.
Physics^Quantum and Nonlinear Optics Quantum and Nonlinear Optics Detailed theory and experimental basis of quantum and nonlinear optics, exhibiting concepts of quantum measurement, noise, stochastic processes and dissipative quantum systems. Topics include second-quantization of electromagnetic fields, photodetection, coherence properties, light-atom interactions, cavity quantum electrodynamics, nonlinear optical systems, squeezed light, aspects of quantum information science, and contemporary research.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics Part I. Introduction to the methods of quantum mechanics with applications to atomic, molecular, solid state, nuclear and elementary particle physics.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics Part II. Introduction to the methods of quantum mechanics with applications to atomic, molecular, solid state, nuclear and elementary particle physics.
Physics^Modern Atomic Physics Modern Atomic Physics This course covers atomic, molecular, and optical physics as a quantitative description of atoms and fields, a generalized toolbox for controlling quantum systems, and a vibrant research area. Topics covered include atomic structure and spectra, atom-field interactions, topics in quantum electrodynamics, methods of resonant manipulation of quantum systems, resonance optics, and experimental techniques.
Physics^Special Relativity and General Relativity Special Relativity and General Relativity Historical and experimental foundations of Einstein's special theory of relativity; spatial and temporal measurements, particle dynamics, electrodynamics, Lorentz invariants. Introduction to general relativity. Selected applications. Designed for advanced undergraduates in physics and astronomy.
Physics^Solid State Physics Solid State Physics Part I. A thorough introductory course in modern solid state physics. Crystal symmetries; classification of solids and their bonding; electromagnetic, elastic, and particle waves in periodic lattices; thermal magnetic and dielectric properties of solids; energy bands of metals and semi-conductors; superconductivity; magnetism; ferroelectricity; magnetic resonances.
Physics^Solid State Physics Solid State Physics Part II. A thorough introductory course in modern solid state physics. Crystal symmetries; classification of solids and their bonding; electromagnetic, elastic, and particle waves in periodic lattices; thermal magnetic and dielectric properties of solids; energy bands of metals and semi-conductors; superconductivity; magnetism; ferroelectricity; magnetic resonances.
Physics^Introduction to Plasma Physics Introduction to Plasma Physics Motion of charged particles in electric and magnetic fields, dynamics of fully ionized plasma from both microscopic and macroscopic point of view, magnetohydrodynamics, small amplitude waves; examples from astrophysics, space sciences and controlled-fusion research.
Physics^Elective Physics: Special Topics Elective Physics: Special Topics Topics vary from semester to semester. The subject matter level and scope of the course are such that it is acceptable as the required elective course in the Physics major. See Department of Physics course announcements.
Physics^Relativistic Astrophysics and Cosmology Relativistic Astrophysics and Cosmology Elements of general relativity. Physics of pulsars, cosmic rays, black holes. The cosmological distance scale, elementary cosmological models, properties of galaxies and quasars. The mass density and age of the universe. Evidence for dark matter and dark energy and concepts of the early universe and of galaxy formation. Reflections on astrophysics as a probe of the extrema of physics.
Physics^Principles of Molecular Biophysics Principles of Molecular Biophysics We will review the structure of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, lipids, and the forces and interactions maintaining their structure in solution. We will describe the thermodynamics and kinetics of protein folding. The principles of polymer chain statistics and of helix-coil transitions in biopolymers will be reviewed next, together with biopolymer dynamics. We will then cover the main structural methods in biology: X-ray crystallography, MNR and fluorescence spectroscopy, electron and probe
Physics^Physics Honors Course Physics Honors Course A seminar which includes study and reports on current theoretical and experimental problems. Open only to students officially in the physics honors program or with consent of instructor.
Physics^Quantum Information Science and Technology Quantum Information Science and Technology This multidisciplinary course provides an introduction to fundamental conceptual aspects of quantum mechanics from a computational and informational theoretic perspective, as well as physical implementations and technological applications of quantum information science. Basic sections of quantum algorithms, complexity, and cryptography, will be touched upon, as well as pertinent physical realizations from nanoscale science and engineering.
Physics^Senior Honors Thesis Research Senior Honors Thesis Research Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis. A total of four units must be taken. The units may be distributed between one or two semesters in any way.
Physics^Senior Honors Thesis Research Senior Honors Thesis Research Thesis work under the supervision of a faculty member. To obtain credit the student must, at the end of two semesters, submit a satisfactory thesis. A total of four units must be taken. The units may be distributed between one or two semesters in any way.
Physics^Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect Berkeley Connect is a mentoring program, offered through various academic departments, that helps students build intellectual community. Over the course of a semester, enrolled students participate in regular small-group discussions facilitated by a graduate student mentor (following a faculty-directed curriculum), meet with their graduate student mentor for one-on-one academic advising, attend lectures and panel discussions featuring department faculty and alumni, and go on field trips to campus
Physics^Introduction to Nano-Science and Engineering Introduction to Nano-Science and Engineering A three-module introduction to the fundamental topics of Nano-Science and Engineering (NSE) theory and research within chemistry, physics, biology, and engineering. This course includes quantum and solid-state physics; chemical synthesis, growth fabrication, and characterization techniques; structures and properties of semiconductors, polymer, and biomedical materials on nanoscales; and devices based on nanostructures. Students must take this course to satisfy the NSE Designated Emphasis core requirement.
Physics^Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics Principles of gas dynamics, self-gravitating fluids, magnetohydrodynamics and elementary kinetic theory. Aspects of convection, fluid oscillations, linear instabilities, spiral density waves, shock waves, turbulence, accretion disks, stellar winds, and jets.
Physics^Computational Nanoscience Computational Nanoscience A multidisciplinary overview of computational nanoscience for both theorists and experimentalists. This course teaches the main ideas behind different simulation methods; how to decompose a problem into "simulatable" constituents; how to simulate the same thing two different ways; knowing what you are doing and why thinking is still important; the importance of talking to experimentalists; what to do with your data and how to judge its validity; why multiscale modeling is both important
Physics^Advanced Dynamics Advanced Dynamics Lagrange and Hamiltonian dynamics, variational methods, symmetry, kinematics and dynamics of rotation, canonical variables and transformations, perturbation theory, nonlinear dynamics, KAM theory, solitons and integrable pdes.
Physics^Advanced Dynamics Advanced Dynamics Nonlinear dynamics of dissipative systems, attractors, perturbation theory, bifurcation theory, pattern formation. Emphasis on recent developments, including turbulence.
Physics^Radiation Processes in Astronomy Radiation Processes in Astronomy An introduction to the basic physics of astronomy and astrophysics at the graduate level. Principles of energy transfer by radiation. Elements of classical and quantum theory of photon emission; bremsstrahlung, cyclotron and synchrotron radiation. Compton scattering, atomic, molecular and nuclear electromagnetic transitions. Collisional excitation of atoms, molecules and nuclei.
Physics^Classical Electromagnetism Classical Electromagnetism Maxwell's equations, gauge transformations and tensors. Complete development of special relativity, with applications. Plane waves in material media, polarization, Fresnel equations, attenuation, and dispersion. Wave equation with sources, retarded solution for potentials, and fields. Cartesian and spherical multipole expansions, vector spherical harmonics, examples of radiating systems, diffraction, and optical theorem. Fields of charges in arbitrary motion, radiated power, relativistic (synchrotron)
Physics^Equilibrium Statistical Physics Equilibrium Statistical Physics Foundations of statistical physics. Ensemble theory. Degenerate systems. Systems of interacting particles.
Physics^Nonequilibrium Statistical Physics Nonequilibrium Statistical Physics Time dependent processes. Kinetic equations. Transport processes. Irreversibility. Theory of many-particle systems. Critical phenomena and renormalization group. Theory of phase transitions.
Physics^Special Topics in Many-Body Physics Special Topics in Many-Body Physics Quantum theory of many-particle systems. Applications of theory and technique to physical systems. Pairing phenomena, superfluidity, equation of state, critical phenomena, phase transitions, nuclear matter.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics Basic assumptions of quantum mechanics; quantum theory of measurement; matrix mechanics; Schroedinger theory; symmetry and invariance principles; theory of angular momentum; stationary state problems; variational principles; time independent perturbation theory; time dependent perturbation theory; theory of scattering.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics Many-body methods, radiation field quantization, relativistic quantum mechanics, applications.
Physics^Particle Physics Phenomenology Particle Physics Phenomenology Introduction to particle physics phenomena. Emphasis is placed on experimental tests of particle physics models. Topics include Quark model spectroscopy; weak decays; overview of detectors and accelerators; e+e- annihilation; parton model; electron-proton and neutrino-proton scattering; special topics of current interest.
Physics^Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology A survey of physical cosmology - the study of the origin, evolution, and fate of the universe. Topics include the Friedmann-Robertson-Walker model, thermal history and big bang nucleosynthesis, evidence and nature of dark matter and dark energy, the formation and growth of galaxies and large scale structure, the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave radiation, inflation in the early universe, tests of cosmological models, and current research areas. The course complements the material of Astronomy
Physics^Advanced Cosmology Advanced Cosmology Advanced topics in physical and early-universe cosmology. Topics include the expanding Universe, evidence and nature of dark matter and dark energy, relativistic perturbation theory, models of cosmological inflation, the formation and growth of large scale structure and the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background, and current research areas. The course extends the material of C228.
Physics^General Relativity General Relativity An introduction to Einstein's theory of gravitation. Tensor analysis, general relativistic models for matter and electromagnetism, Einstein's field equations. Applications, for example, to the solar system, dense stars, black holes, and cosmology.
Physics^Quantum Field Theory I Quantum Field Theory I Introduction to quantum field theory: canonical quantization of scalar, electromagnetic, and Dirac fields; derivation of Feynman rules; regularization and renormalization; introduction to the renormalization group; elements of the path integral.
Physics^Quantum Field Theory II Quantum Field Theory II Renormalization of Yang-Mills gauge theories: BRST quantization of gauge theories; nonperturbative dynamics; renormalization group; basics of effective field theory; large N; solitons; instantons; dualities. Selected current topics.
Physics^Standard Model and Beyond I Standard Model and Beyond I Introduction to the Standard Model of particle physics and its applications: construction of the Standard Model; Higgs mechanism; phenomenology of weak interactions; QCD and the chiral Lagrangian; quark mixing and flavor physics.
Physics^Standard Model and Beyond II Standard Model and Beyond II Advanced topics in the Standard Model and beyond, selected from: open problems in the Standard Model; supersymmetric models; grand unification; neutrino physics; flat and warped extra dimensions; axions; inflation; baryogenesis; dark matter; the multiverse; other current topics.
Physics^String Theory I String Theory I Perturbative theory of the bosonic strings, superstrings, and heterotic strings: NSR and GS formulations; 2d CFT; strings in background fields; T-duality; effective spacetime supergravity; perturbative description of D-branes; elements of compactifications and string phenomemology; perturbative mirror symmetry.
Physics^String Theory II String Theory II Nonperturbative apsects of string theory. Topics selected from black holes; black branes; Bekenstein-Hawking entropy; D-branes; string dualities; M-theory; holographic principle and its realizations; AdS/CFT correspondence; gauge theory/gravity dualities; flux compactifications; cosmology in string theory; topological string theories. Selected current topics.
Physics^Advanced Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Advanced Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Contemporary topics in atomic, molecular, and optical physics are presented at an advanced level. These topics may include one or several of the following, at the discretion of the instructor: mechanical effects of light-atom interactions, ultra-cold atomic physics, molecular physics, resonance optics of multi-level atoms, and probing particle physics with atoms and molecules.
Physics^Quantum Theory of Solids Quantum Theory of Solids Excitations and interactions in solids; crystal structures, symmetries, Bloch's theorem; energy bands; electron dynamics; impurity states; lattice dynamics, phonons; many-electron interactions; density functional theory; dielectric functions, conductivity and optical properties.
Physics^Quantum Theory of Solids Quantum Theory of Solids Optical properties, excitons; electron-phonon interactions, polarons; quantum oscillations, Fermi surfaces; magnetoresistance; quantum Hall effect; transport processes, Boltzmann equation; superconductivity, BCS theory; many-body perturbation theory, Green's functions.
Physics^Theoretical Plasma Physics Theoretical Plasma Physics Analysis of plasma behavior according to the Vlasov, Fokker-Planck equations, guiding center and hydromagnetic descriptions. Study of equilibria, stability, linear and nonlinear waves, transport, and laser-plasma interactions.
Physics^Theoretical Plasma Physics Theoretical Plasma Physics Analysis of plasma behavior according to the Vlasov, Fokker-Planck equations, guiding center and hydromagnetic descriptions. Study of equilibria, stability, linear and nonlinear waves, transport, and laser-plasma interactions.
Physics^Special Topics in Physics Special Topics in Physics Topics will vary from semester to semester. See Department of Physics announcements.
Physics^Introduction to Graduate Research in Physics Introduction to Graduate Research in Physics A survey of experimental and theoretical research in the Department of Physics, designed for first-year graduate students. One regular meeting each week with supplementary visits to experimental laboratories. Meetings include discussions with research staff.
Physics^High Energy Astrophysics High Energy Astrophysics Basic physics of high energy radiation processes in an astrophysics environment. Cosmic ray production and propagation. Applications selected from pulsars, x-ray sources, supernovae, interstellar medium, extragalactic radio sources, quasars, and big-bang cosmologies.
Physics^Theoretical Astrophysics Seminar Theoretical Astrophysics Seminar The study of theoretical astrophysics.
Physics^Special Study for Graduate Students Special Study for Graduate Students This course is arranged to allow qualified graduate students to investigate possible research fields or to pursue problems of interest through reading or non-laboratory study under the direction of faculty members who agree to give such supervision.
Physics^Advanced Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Physics Advanced Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Physics Discussion, problem review and development, guidance of physics laboratory experiments, course development.
Physics^Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Physics Professional Preparation: Supervised Teaching of Physics Mandatory for first time GSIs. Topics include teaching theory, effective teaching methods, educational objectives, alternatives to standard classroom methods, reciprocal classroom visitations, and guided group and self-analysis of videotapes.
Psychology^General Psychology General Psychology Introduction to the principal areas, problems, and concepts of psychology. This course is required for the major; students not considering a psychology major are directed to 2.
Psychology^General Psychology General Psychology Introduction to the principal areas, problems, and concepts of psychology. This course is required for the major; students not considering a psychology major are directed to 2.
Psychology^General Psychology General Psychology Introduction to the principal areas, problems, and concepts of psychology.
Psychology^Principles of Psychology Principles of Psychology An overview of psychology for students who will not major in the field. This course satisfies the prerequisite for upper division decade courses.
Psychology^Introduction to How the Brain Works Introduction to How the Brain Works This course will give a rigorous yet accessible overview of our current understanding of how the brain works and how it is altered by experience. Specifically, the class provides: an introduction to the structure and function of the sensory and motor systems; discussions of disorders and phenomena such as blindsight, synaesthesia, color blindness, and phantom limbs; and a lecture with presentation of classical experiments on the capacity of the young and adult brain for plasticity and learning.
Psychology^Stress and Coping Stress and Coping This course is designed to provide students with an in-depth analysis of the various areas within the field of psychology that address topics related to stress and coping. In particular, we will cover the biological, social, personality, cognitive, and clinical factors that play a role in the development of stress and subsequent coping techniques that can be used to deal with stress. The class will have a strong focus on the empirical findings relating to the subject.
Psychology^The Person in Big Data The Person in Big Data This course will introduce students to the basic principles and methods of personality and social psychology as applied to a rapidly growing topic of modern society--the collection and analysis of online social “big data.” Students will learn about the ways in which big data has historically been defined, collected, and utilized, as well as fundamental concepts in person perception and social behavior that are relevant to topics of big data collection, analysis, and interpretation.
Psychology^Music and the Brain Music and the Brain This course will explore mental processes that allow listeners to perceive music and performers to produce it. We will compare music from various traditions to examine shared cognitive principles and emotional responses; comparisons to language will highlight neural specializations for music. Developmental psychology will inform discussion of learned vs. innate components of musical behavior. Students will design experiments to test hypotheses relating to music cognition.
Psychology^Research and Data Analysis in Psychology Research and Data Analysis in Psychology The class covers research design, statistical reasoning, and statistical methods appropriate for psychological research. Topics covered in research design include the scientific method, experimental versus correlational designs, controls and placebos, within and between subject designs and temporal or sequence effects. Topics covered in statistics include descriptive versus inferential statistics, linear regression and correlation and univariate statistical tests: t-test, one way and two-way ANOVA
Psychology^Psychology of Gender Psychology of Gender Examination of various factors in the development of feminine and masculine roles, including personality, social processes, biology, and culture.
Psychology^Drugs and the Brain Drugs and the Brain The history, chemical nature, botanical origins, and effects on the human brain and behavior of drugs such as stimulants, depressants, psychedelics, analgesics, antidepressants, antipsychotics, steroids, and other psychoactive substances of both natural and synthetic origin. The necessary biological, chemical, and psychological background material for understanding the content of this course will be contained within the course itself.
Psychology^Brain Development and Aging Brain Development and Aging This is an introductory survey course on brain and cognitive development. It gives an overview of brain structure and function and how it changes throughout life. Topics include: effect of pre-natal maternal and paternal behavior in brain development; critical periods; experience-dependent changes in the brain; the adolescent brain; and the aging brain. We will also discuss developmental disorders such as Down syndrome and the putative benefits of exercise and diet to brain health.
Psychology^Brain, Mind, and Behavior Brain, Mind, and Behavior Introduction to human brain mechanisms of sensation, movement, perception, thinking, learning, memory, and emotion in terms of anatomy, physiology, and chemistry of the nervous system in health and disease. Intended for students in the humanities and social sciences and others not majoring in the biological sciences.
Psychology^Exploring the Brain: Introduction to Neuroscience Exploring the Brain: Introduction to Neuroscience This course will introduce lower division undergraduates to the fundamentals of neuroscience. The first part of the course covers basic membrane properties, synapses, action potentials, chemical and electrical synaptic interactions, receptor potentials, and receptor proteins. The second part of the course covers networks in invertebrates, memory and learning behavior, modulation, vertebrate brain and spinal cord, retina, visual cortex architecture, hierarchy, development, and higher cortical centers.
Psychology^Supervised Group Study Supervised Group Study Group study of selected topics. Enrollment restricted. See Introduction to Courses and Curriculum section of this catalog.
Psychology^Research and Data Analysis in Psychology Research and Data Analysis in Psychology The course will concentrate on hypothesis formulation and testing, tests of significance, analysis of variance (one-way analysis), simple correlation, simple regression, and nonparametric statistics such as chi-square and Mann-Whitney U tests. Majors intending to be in the honors program must complete 101 by the end of their junior year.
Psychology^Methods for Research in Psychological Sciences Methods for Research in Psychological Sciences Lecture and computer lab course on advanced data analysis techniques used by researchers in psychology. The course will cover programming techniques in R and data analysis methods that include modeling, multivariate statistics, and data reduction and visualization techniques. The following topics will be covered: generalized linear model (includes logistic regression), discriminant analysis (includes multivariate ANOVA), principal component analysis, and factor analysis.
Psychology^Psychology of Dreams Psychology of Dreams Dreaming is a necessary, universal nightly activity of the human mind and brain. This class will cover some of the major psychological theories, interpretations, and uses that have been made of dreams. Students will be encouraged to keep dream diaries to provide an experiential component to the class and so that they may apply the class topics and do research using the material they generate themselves.
Psychology^Buddhist Psychology Buddhist Psychology Based on tradition of direct observation of working of ordinary mind in everyday life situations. Provides contrasting perspective to present theories of cognition, perception, motivation, emotion, social interaction, and neurosis.
Psychology^Buddhist Psychology Buddhist Psychology Based on tradition of direct observation of working of ordinary mind in everyday life situations. Provides contrasting perspective to present theories of cognition, perception, motivation, emotion, social interaction, and neurosis.
Psychology^Clinical Applications of East Asian Meditation Practices Clinical Applications of East Asian Meditation Practices This course applies views and practices of Buddhist, Taoist, and Confucian schools of meditation. The emphasis in the course will be on practical and clinical applications of meditation such as working with emotions and the quest for psychological well-being. The basic laboratory technique will be various types of meditation.
Psychology^History of Psychology History of Psychology Development of scientific study of human and animal behavior. Consideration of history of particular subject areas--such as biological, comparative, developmental, personality, and social psychology--as well as general trends.
Psychology^Introduction to Biological Psychology Introduction to Biological Psychology Survey of relations between behavioral and biological processes. Topics include sensory and perceptual processes, neural maturation, natural bases of motivation, and learning.
Psychology^Introduction to Biological Psychology Introduction to Biological Psychology Survey of relations between behavioral and biological processes. Topics include sensory and perceptual processes, neural maturation, natural bases of motivation, and learning.
Psychology^Biological Clocks: Physiology and Behavior Biological Clocks: Physiology and Behavior A consideration of the biological clocks that generate daily, lunar, seasonal and annual rhythms in various animals including people. Emphasis on neuroendocrine substrates, development and adaptive significance of estrous cycles, feeding rhythms, sleep-wakefulness cycles, reproductive and hibernation cycles, body weight and migratory cycles.
Psychology^Biology of Learning and Neural Plasticity Biology of Learning and Neural Plasticity A study of theoretical and experimental investigations of the biological substrates of learning, memory and forms of neural plasticity related to the growth and maturation of the nervous system.
Psychology^Hormones and Behavior Hormones and Behavior This course provides a comprehensive overview of behavorial endocrinology beginning with hormone production and actions on target issues and continuing with an exploration of a variety of behaviors and their hormonal regulation/consequences. The course uses a comparative approach to examine the reciprocal interactions between the neuroendocrine system and behavior, considering the effects of hormone on development and adult behavior in addition to how behavior regulates endocrine physiology. While
Psychology^Human Neuropsychology Human Neuropsychology A survey of contemporary psychological approaches to problems of human disabilities including mental disorders, behavior changes following human brain injury and disease, and mental subnormality. Emphasis on nervous system models of these problems and areas of potential application of basic research development.
Psychology^Topical Seminar in Biological Psychology Topical Seminar in Biological Psychology For a precise schedule of courses, check with the Student Services Office each semester.
Psychology^Basic Issues in Cognition Basic Issues in Cognition Theoretical foundations and current controversies in cognitive science will be discussed. Basic issues in cognition--including perception, imagery, memory, categorization, thinking, judgment, and development--will be considered from the perspectives of philosophy, psychology, computer science, and physiology. Particular emphasis will be placed on the nature, implications, and limitations of the computational model of mind.
Psychology^Animal Cognition Animal Cognition This course focuses on how animals process, organize, and retain information. Specific topics include learning and memory, sensory processes, navigation and migration, communication, and cross-species comparisons of behavior. Material will be drawn from the ethological, behavioral/experimental, and, to a lesser extent, the neurosciences literature.
Psychology^Introduction to Human Learning and Memory Introduction to Human Learning and Memory Theoretical and experimental analysis of human learning and memory; short-term and long-term memory; coding and retrieval processes; transfer and interference; mechanisms of forgetting.
Psychology^Introduction to Human Learning and Memory Introduction to Human Learning and Memory Theoretical and experimental analysis of human learning and memory; short-term and long-term memory; coding and retrieval processes; transfer and interference; mechanisms of forgetting.
Psychology^The Developing Brain The Developing Brain What are the changes in brain structure and function that underlie improvements in cognitive abilities over childhood and adolescence? Or, coming from a different perspective, what insights can we gain regarding the neural basis of cognition by examining how the brain develops? And how are such findings relevant for medicine, education, and the law? The cutting-edge new field of developmental cognitive neuroscience is beginning to address these and other questions. This course will consititute an
Psychology^Perception Perception An introduction to principal theoretical constructs and experimental procedures in visual and auditory perception. Topics will include psychophysics; perception of color, space, shape, and motion; pattern recognition and perceptual attention.
Psychology^Cognitive Neuroscience Cognitive Neuroscience This course will examine research investigating the neurological basis of cognition. Material covered will include the study of brain-injured patients, neurophysiological research in animals, and the study of normal cognitive processes in humans with non-invasive behavioral and physiological techniques such as functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), electroencephalography (EEG), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Topics to be covered include perception, attention, memory, language
Psychology^Topical Seminars in Cognitive Psychology Topical Seminars in Cognitive Psychology For a precise schedule of offerings check with the Student Services Office each semester.
Psychology^Scientific Approaches to Consciousness Scientific Approaches to Consciousness This course will examine the nature of human consciousness from the interdisciplinary perspective of cognitive science. It will cover topics from the philosophy of mind, cognitive linguistics, neuroscience, psychology, and computational models.
Psychology^Clinical Psychology Clinical Psychology Theoretical and empirical approaches to the explanation of psychological dysfunction. The relation between theories of psychopathology and theories of intervention. A critical evaluation of the effects of individual, family, and community approaches to therapeutic and preventive intervention. Thematic focus of the course may change from year to year. See department notices for details.
Psychology^Clinical Psychology Clinical Psychology Theoretical and empirical approaches to the explanation of psychological dysfunction. The relation between theories of psychopathology and theories of intervention. A critical evaluation of the effects of individual, family, and community approaches to therapeutic and preventive intervention. Thematic focus of the course may change from year to year. See department notices for details.
Psychology^Developmental Psychopathology Developmental Psychopathology This course will discuss linkages between developmental processes and child psychopathology. Included will be discussion of cognitive impairments in children, including learning disabilities and mental retardation; internalizing disorders, such as anxiety, withdrawal, and depression; externalizing disorders, such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and conduct disorder; and child abuse and neglect. Psychobiological, familial, legal, and societal factors will be emphasized.
Psychology^Psychology of Sleep Psychology of Sleep This course has two primary goals: (1) to provide a basic introduction to the study of sleep and an overview of sleep measurement, regulation, ontogeny, phylogeny, physiology, and psychology; and (2) to provide a basic introduction to sleep disorders including their classification, cause, and treatment.
Psychology^Psychology of Sleep Psychology of Sleep This course has two primary goals: (1) to provide a basic introduction to the study of sleep and an overview of sleep measurement, regulation, ontogeny, phylogeny, physiology, and psychology; and (2) to provide a basic introduction to sleep disorders including their classification, cause, and treatment.
Psychology^Health Psychology Health Psychology This course will provide students with an introduction to Health Psychology. Students will learn about measurement of psychological, behavioral, and biological constructs; incidence and prevalence of psychological and medical disorders; introductions to endocrinology, immunology, and psychophysiology and how these systems are thought to relate psychology to health; as well as introductions to how science is working to understand psychology and health in the laboratory and across the population.
Psychology^Human Sexuality Human Sexuality Biological, social, and clinical issues in sexuality. Topics include psychology and physiology of sexual response, new developments in contraception, homosexuality and lesbianism, variations in sexual behavior, gender identity and role, definition and treatment of sexual dysfunction. Approved for state psychology licensing requirement.
Psychology^Case Studies in Clinical Psychology Case Studies in Clinical Psychology This course is for students who are curious about clinical psychology and who seek to explore real world cases and examples of mental health diagnoses. Through the use of clinical cases and first-person accounts, this course will give an overview of the diagnostic criteria mental health providers use to make diagnoses, discuss environmental and genetic casual factors, and explore available treatment options for various mental illnesses.
Psychology^Developmental Psychology Developmental Psychology This course explores the development of children from birth to adolescence, in a wide range of areas including biological, cognitive, linguistic, social, and personality development. It also covers the effects of genes, experience, and social context on children's development.
Psychology^Developmental Psychology Developmental Psychology This course explores the development of children from birth to adolescence, in a wide range of areas including biological, cognitive, linguistic, social, and personality development. It also covers the effects of genes, experience, and social context on children's development.
Psychology^Development During Infancy Development During Infancy Cognitive, perceptual, and social development during the first two years of life with emphasis upon methods of observation and experimentation.
Psychology^Language Acquisition Language Acquisition An overview of topics and theories in language acquisition: early development of speech perception and production, word learning, generalizing linguistic structure, and differences between first language acquisition, second language acquisition, and bilingualism. We will also compare different theoretical approaches, and address the classic "nature vs. nurture" question by examining both traditional generativist approaches and more recent usage based models.
Psychology^Developmental and Biological Processes in Attachment Developmental and Biological Processes in Attachment This course on attachment theory provides an integrative (evolutionary/genetic/experiential) approach to studying secure vs. insecure parent-child relationships; their precursors in parental rearing patterns; and favorable vs. unfavorable sequelae. Adult life-history narratives indicative of secure vs. insecure adult attachment have been found associated with care-giving of offspring.
Psychology^Topical Seminars in Developmental Psychology Topical Seminars in Developmental Psychology For a precise schedule of offerings, check with the Student Services Office each semester.
Psychology^Psychology of Personality Psychology of Personality A consideration of general and systematic issues in the study of personality and an evaluation of major theories and points of view.
Psychology^Psychology of Personality Psychology of Personality A consideration of general and systematic issues in the study of personality and an evaluation of major theories and points of view.
Psychology^Human Emotion Human Emotion This course will examine two different theoretical perspectives on emotion: (1) the differential emotions approach with its strong evolutionary grounding, and (2) the social constructionist approach. Next, the course will investigate empirical research on many facets of emotion including facial expression, physiology, appraisal, and the lexicon of emotion. Finally, we will consider more specific topics including social interaction, culture, gender, personality, and psychopathology.
Psychology^Social Psychology Social Psychology Survey of social psychology including interaction processes, small groups, attitudes and attitude change, and social problems.
Psychology^Social Psychology Social Psychology Survey of social psychology including interaction processes, small groups, attitudes and attitude change, and social problems.
Psychology^Human Happiness Human Happiness This course will take an interdisciplinary approach to an understanding of happiness. The first part of the course will be devoted to the different treatments of happiness in the world's philosophical traditions, focusing up close on conceptions or the good life in classical Greek and Judeo-Christian thought, the great traditions in East Asian thought (Taoism, Buddhism, Confucianism), and ideas about happiness that emerged more recently in the age of Enlightenment. With these different perspectives
Psychology^Human Happiness Human Happiness This course will take an interdisciplinary approach to an understanding of happiness. The first part of the course will be devoted to the different treatments of happiness in the world's philosophical traditions, focusing up close on conceptions or the good life in classical Greek and Judeo-Christian thought, the great traditions in East Asian thought (Taoism, Buddhism, Confucianism), and ideas about happiness that emerged more recently in the age of Enlightenment. With these different perspectives
Psychology^Human Happiness Human Happiness This course will take an interdisciplinary approach to an understanding of happiness. We will first review the different treatments of happiness in the world’s philosophical traditions: conceptions of the good life in classical Greek and Judeo-Christian thought, the great East Asian philosophies, and ideas about happiness that emerged in the age of Enlightenment. With these different perspectives as a framework, the course will turn to treatments of happiness in the behavioral sciences, evolutionary
Psychology^Social Cognition Social Cognition Surveys empirical and theoretical approaches to our understanding of perception, memory, thought, and language concerning ourselves, other people, interpersonal behavior, and the situations in which social interaction takes place. Emphasis is placed on the integration of problems in social, personality, and clinical psychology with the concepts and principles employed in the study of nonsocial cognition.
Psychology^Psychology of Creativity Psychology of Creativity This is a course on creativity, both at the individual and the group level. We will consider traits of highly creative individuals (vs. less creative individuals) and the ways in which they think. We will also investigate the ways in which influence processes affect individual creativity and will then focus on group creativity, including techniques by which creativity is hindered or stimulated. Finally, we will consider applications from organizations as we consider cultures in which creativity
Psychology^Cultural Psychology Cultural Psychology The course will review research on culture, race, and ethnicity and will consider the implications of these findings for our understanding of race, culture, and ethnicity in American society. Mounting evidence suggests that psychological processes are culture-specific, theory-driven, and context-dependent. This course will focus on the effects that theories of mind, person, self, and social institutions have on human cognition, motivation, emotion, and social interactions in American society. Students
Psychology^Stigma and Prejudice Stigma and Prejudice Traditionally, research on prejudice and stereotyping has focused on the psychological mechanisms that lead people to be biased against others. Recent research has begun to shed light on the psychological legacy of prejudice and stereotyping for their targets. This course will review the major contributions of each of these literatures, providing students with a broad understanding of both classic and current issues in the field. The course will be divided into three sections: bias (i.e., the perpetrator's
Psychology^Topical Seminars in Social Psychology Topical Seminars in Social Psychology For a precise schedule of offerings check with Student Services Office each semester.
Psychology^Industrial-Organizational Psychology Industrial-Organizational Psychology Primarily for majors. Introduction to the field of industrial psychology, covering fundamental theory and concepts in personnel and social aspects in the field. Concerned with the processes involved in developing and maintaining organizations.
Psychology^Industrial-Organizational Psychology Industrial-Organizational Psychology Primarily for majors. Introduction to the field of industrial psychology, covering fundamental theory and concepts in personnel and social aspects in the field. Concerned with the processes involved in developing and maintaining organizations.
Psychology^Special Topics in Psychology Special Topics in Psychology Course examines current problems and issues in psychology.
Psychology^Child Development in Different Cultures Child Development in Different Cultures This course explores "culture" as a context for development from both global and American sub-group perspectives, through developmental stages from early childhood to adolescence, across physical, social and cognitive domains. It will examine traditional theories and modern systems theories with respect to individual and social contexts, discuss the experience of sub-groups of American children and conclude with a comprehensive analysis of the development of an individual.
Psychology^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar In the fall semester the seminar will concentrate on issues of research design, ethics, and data analysis using statistical packages. The spring semester will focus on oral and written presentations of the thesis projects and feedback on thesis drafts.
Psychology^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar In the fall semester the seminar will concentrate on issues of research design, ethics, and data analysis using statistical packages. The spring semester will focus on oral and written presentations of the thesis projects and feedback on thesis drafts.
Psychology^Special Study for Honors Candidates Special Study for Honors Candidates Independent study and preparation of an honors thesis under the supervision of a faculty member.
Psychology^Special Study for Honors Candidates Special Study for Honors Candidates Independent study and preparation of an honors thesis under the supervision of a faculty member.
Psychology^Field Study in Psychology Field Study in Psychology Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of psychology in off-campus settings. Individual and/or group meetings with faculty. Enrollment is restricted by regulations of the Berkeley Division listed elsewhere in this catalog.
Psychology^Data Analysis Data Analysis This course serves both as a refresher for undergraduate statistics and as a preparation for more advanced courses. This course will cover fundamental principles of statistical thinking including probability theory, distributions, modeling, parameter fitting, error estimation, statistical significance and cross-validation. In addition, the course will cover all statistical tests that are part of the generalized mixed effect models: n-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), multiple regression, analysis
Psychology^Structural Equation Modeling Structural Equation Modeling This course is intended to provide an introduction to the principles and practice of structural equation modeling, including matrix algebra, LISREL notation, measurement models and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), path models, and structural models. In addition, we will cover multiple ways to handle longitudinal data (e.g., latent growth and simplex models) and advanced topics such as mediation and latent variable interactions. Data analytic examples and assignments will come from psychological
Psychology^Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior A survey of the field of biological psychology. Areas covered are (a) cognitive neuroscience; (b) biological bases of behavior; (c) sensation and perception (d) learning and memory, (e) thought and language.
Psychology^Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior A survey of the field of biological psychology. Areas covered are (a) cognitive neuroscience; (b) biological bases of behavior; (c) sensation and perception (d) learning and memory, (e) thought and language.
Psychology^Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior A survey of the field of biological psychology. Areas covered are (a) cognitive neuroscience; (b) biological bases of behavior; (c) sensation and perception (d) learning and memory, (e) thought and language.
Psychology^Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior A survey of the field of biological psychology. Areas covered are (a) cognitive neuroscience; (b) biological bases of behavior; (c) sensation and perception (d) learning and memory, (e) thought and language.
Psychology^Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Proseminar: Cognition, Brain, and Behavior A survey of the field of biological psychology. Areas covered are (a) cognitive neuroscience; (b) biological bases of behavior; (c) sensation and perception (d) learning and memory, (e) thought and language.
Psychology^Functional MRI Methods Functional MRI Methods This course will provide an overview of functional MRI methodology. Topics to be covered include the basic physics of fMRI, the nature of BOLD fMRI signal, the spatial and temporal resolution of fMRI, issues in experimental design, and statistical techniques used for analyzing fMRI data. The class will review published studies as well as ongoing research projects that address questions regarding brain-behavior relationships. Students will have the opportunity for hands-on experience performing an
Psychology^Consciousness Consciousness Survey of psychological, philosophical, and neuroscientific approaches to consciousness. Introspection. The mind-body problem. Automaticity. Explicit-implicit dissociations in memory, perception, and thought. Implicit emotion and motivation. Sleep and dreams. Anesthesia and coma. Hypnosis. Meditative states. Consciousness in nonhuman animals and computing machines.
Psychology^Proseminar: Problem Solving and Understanding Proseminar: Problem Solving and Understanding Students will examine problem solving in children and adults, from a predominantly cognitive science perspective, beginning with an examination of thinking involved in diverse problem types. Students will then analyze the literature concerning cognitive issues that transcend problem types, including representation, "understanding," access and availability of knowledge, access to one's own cognitive processing, categorization, the architecture of knowledge, and the control of cognition.
Psychology^Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Colloquium Cognition, Brain, and Behavior Colloquium Reports and discussions of original research in the area of cognitive psychology. Not all participants must report in any given semester, but all are expected to attend and to enter into the discussions. Required course for all students in the cognition, brain, and behavior graduate program.
Psychology^Proseminar: Clinical Psychology Proseminar: Clinical Psychology This course is a review of the history and theory of the field of clinical psychology. The course covers adult and child psychopathology, ethnic minority mental health, culture, and community influences.
Psychology^Clinical Neuroscience Clinical Neuroscience This course examines how psychology, neuroscience, pharmacology, and medicine come together to understand psychiatric and neurological disorders, and through this understanding, develop and deliver evidence-based treatments. Class format consists of attending patient care clinics, lectures, paper reviews and class discussions.
Psychology^Clinical Assessment: Theory, Application, and Practicum Clinical Assessment: Theory, Application, and Practicum The clinical interview and principles and methods of intellectual, objective, and projective clinical assessment. Readings, discussion, and supervised experience in clinical assessment. The first semester will focus on adult assessments; the second semester will focus on child/adolescent assessments. Required of all clinical students.
Psychology^Clinical Assessment: Theory, Application, and Practicum Clinical Assessment: Theory, Application, and Practicum The clinical interview and principles and methods of intellectual, objective, and projective clinical assessment. Readings, discussion, and supervised experience in clinical assessment. The first semester will focus on adult assessments; the second semester will focus on child/adolescent assessments. Required of all clinical students.
Psychology^Theories of Cognitive Behavior Therapy Theories of Cognitive Behavior Therapy Central features of cognitive behavior therapy; basics of several cognitive-behavioral theories; evidence of efficacy and effectiveness of methods; methods for assessing, conceptualizing and treating patients; theories, methods, and efficacy evidence for several disorders, primarily anxiety and affective disorders.
Psychology^Specialty Clinic Specialty Clinic A Specialty Clinic is offered to graduate students in the Clinical Science program. Each course combines didactics and hands-on clinical work. Students in the course work with the instructor to develop the topic of interest by reviewing the empirical literature, defining and developing an intervention/consultation, defining a clinical population, marketing and delivering the intervention/consultation, and evaluating the effectiveness of the intervention/consultation. A number of readings are included
Psychology^Professional Development in Clinical Science Professional Development in Clinical Science Issues in decisions about providing psychological services to individuals, families, groups and social systems.
Psychology^Intervention: Couples Therapy Intervention: Couples Therapy Psychological intervention with couples.
Psychology^Intervention: Specialty Clinics Intervention: Specialty Clinics Psychological intervention with and evaluation of specially designated populations.
Psychology^Intervention: Introduction to Clinical Methods Intervention: Introduction to Clinical Methods This course is an introduction to clinical methods in preparation for the clinical practicum in the Psychology Clinic during the second and third years of the clinical graduate program. Topics covered include clinical policies and procedures, legal and ethical issues, risk management, standards of care, HIPAA, and consultations.
Psychology^Clinical Seminar Clinical Seminar Reports and discussions of original research in the area of clinical psychology. Not all participants need report in any given semester, but all are expected to attend and to enter into the discussions. Required course for all students in the clinical graduate program.
Psychology^Proseminar: Biological, Cognitive, and Language Development Proseminar: Biological, Cognitive, and Language Development Survey of the biology of the nervous system and behavior; the cellular interactions during development in animals and humans, including neurogenesis, synaptogenesis, cell death and synapse elimination; and the genetic and experiential determinants of neural development. Exploration of the origins and development of knowledge from infancy through childhood; the development of children's concepts across multiple domains including physics, biology, math, and psychology. Survey of facts and theories
Psychology^Proseminar: Emotional, Social, and Psychopathological Development Proseminar: Emotional, Social, and Psychopathological Development Survey of current research and theory on the origins and maintenance of normal and pathological socioemotional development in infancy. Exploration of biological, psychological, familial, and cultural factors affecting social and emotional development through childhood and adolescence. Focus of the course includes how normal or pathological trajectories are maintained in some children, while others shift into or out of clinically diagnosable disorders.
Psychology^Developmental Seminar Developmental Seminar Reports and discussions of original research in the area of developmental psychology. Not all participants need report in any given semester, but all are expected to attend and to enter into the discussions. Required course for all students in the developmental graduate program.
Psychology^Perspectives in Personality: Overview Perspectives in Personality: Overview Introduces the perspectives and research programs of the personality faculty to graduate students having an interest in their field. Each week, attention is directed to the work of a different faculty member associated with the personality program.
Psychology^Perspectives in Personality: Trends and Issues Perspectives in Personality: Trends and Issues Considers historical trends and current discussions regarding such topics as (1) the concept of disposition; (2) person by environment transactions; (3) observational assessment of persons; (4) personality systematics; (5) personality development and concepts of structure, and (6) formulations of personality system-social system interactions.
Psychology^Proseminar: Social Cognition Proseminar: Social Cognition Surveys empirical and theoretical approaches to our understanding of perception, memory, thought, and language concerning ourselves, other people, interpersonal behavior, and the situations in which social interaction takes place. Emphasis is placed on the integration of problems in social, personality, and clinical psychology with the concepts and principles employed in the study of nonsocial cognition.
Psychology^Principles and Pragmatics of Personality Measurement Principles and Pragmatics of Personality Measurement Methods of personality measurement and assessment, with particular attention to the qualities, attributes, talents and dispositions considered in the everyday evaluations people make of self and others.
Psychology^Personality Seminar Personality Seminar Reports and discussions of original research in the area of personality psychology. Not all participants need report in any given semester, but all are expected to attend and to enter into the discussions. Required course for all students in the personality graduate program.
Psychology^Proseminar Course in Social Psychology Proseminar Course in Social Psychology Extensive coverage of theoretical and research literature. Topics include history and systems, attitudes and attitude change, interpersonal processes, motivation, social interaction, small groups, and organizational behavior. Required course for all students in the social graduate program.
Psychology^Social Seminar Social Seminar Reports and discussion of original research in the area of social psychology. Not all participants need report in any given semester, but all are expected to attend and to enter into the discussions. Required for all students in the social graduate program.
Psychology^Seminars Seminars Special section.
Psychology^Introduction to the Profession of Psychology Introduction to the Profession of Psychology This course provides both a broad review of the field of psychology and an introduction to the faculty of this department. Faculty from various program areas will present biographical information and discuss their particular research programs, as well as summarizing current developments in their areas. The course will also cover topics in professional development (e.g., scientific writing, convention presentations, journal review processes, professional and scientific ethics, and special issues
Psychology^Second-Year Seminar on Professional Development Second-Year Seminar on Professional Development This course will focus on various issues related to professional development. Topics may include planning a research program, preparing for qualifying exams, choosing a dissertation committee, identifying career options, presenting work at conferences and in journals, preparing grant proposals, preparing for job interviews, juggling professional and personal life, and recognizing obstacles in career development. The seminar participants will select actual topics at the beginning of the term, and
Psychology^Current Issues Colloquium Series Current Issues Colloquium Series Current issues in specified areas of psychology presented weekly by announced speakers.
Psychology^Directed Study Directed Study Special study under the direction of a member of the staff.
Psychology^Research Research Individual research.
Psychology^Supervision for Teaching Psychology 2 Supervision for Teaching Psychology 2 Supervised teaching experience for graduate student instructors of Psych 2.
Psychology^Teaching Psychology Teaching Psychology This course will provide training in a variety of teaching techniques, will review relevant pedagogical issues, and will assist graduate students in mastering their initial teaching experiences.
Psychology^Clinical Internship (Off Campus) Clinical Internship (Off Campus) Individual programs of practice and supervision in approved off-campus agencies.
Psychology^Clinical Internship (Off Campus) Clinical Internship (Off Campus) Individual programs of practice and supervision in approved off-campus agencies.
Political Science^Introduction to American Politics Introduction to American Politics An introductory analysis of the structure and operations of the American political system, primarily at the national level.
Political Science^Introduction to Comparative Politics Introduction to Comparative Politics This course deals with the basic problems and processes that all political systems face and examines their particular expression in Western, Communist, and Third World settings.
Political Science^Introduction to Empirical Analysis and Quantitative Methods Introduction to Empirical Analysis and Quantitative Methods Analytical and methodological problems of political inquiry, with an emphasis on quantification and measurement.
Political Science^Introduction to Political Theory Introduction to Political Theory An approach to the understanding of politics through the perspectives and language of the political theorist.
Political Science^Introduction to International Relations Introduction to International Relations This course is designed to introduce students to the major theoretical approaches to international politics, to explore important historical and contemporary questions and debates in international affairs, and to teach students to think critically about international relations. It is a prerequisite for most upper division international relations courses in Political Science.
Political Science^Race, Culture, and Politics in the Golden State Race, Culture, and Politics in the Golden State This course will study the historical processes of racial formation and transformation in California. Students will develop an understanding of the dynamic nature of racial and ethnic cultures and identities, and use these tools to better understand their own cultural position. Two periods are studied: 1848-1882 and 1964-1988. The course will consider the experiences of Asian Americans, Chicano/Latinos, African Americans, European Americans, and Native Americans.
Political Science^Societal Risks and the Law Societal Risks and the Law Defining, perceiving, quantifying and measuring risk; identifying risks and estimating their importance; determining whether laws and regulations can protect us from these risks; examining how well existing laws work and how they could be improved; evaluting costs and benefits. Applications may vary by term. This course cannot be used to complete engineering unit or technical elective requirements for students in the College of Engineering.
Political Science^Directed Group Study for Lower Division Students Directed Group Study for Lower Division Students Lectures and small group discussion focusing on topics of interest that vary from semester to semester.
Political Science^The American Presidency The American Presidency Analysis of principal institutions, functions, and problems of the Presidency and the federal executive branch. Special attention will be given to topics of presidential leadership, staffing, executive-legislative relations, and policy formation. Comparative reference to executive processes in other political systems.
Political Science^Congress Congress Nomination and election, constituent relations, the formal and informal structures of both houses, relations with the executive branch, policy formation, and lobbying.
Political Science^The Congress The Congress This course will explore the Congress--the first branch under the Consititution--and its role in our political system. It will leverage our environment in Washington by featuring frequent guest speakers and seeking connections to current policy and political debate. In addition to surveying the pathways of lawmaking, we will ask how Congress and its members relate to the other branches of government, to the press, and to the public.
Political Science^Political Parties Political Parties The institutional environment within which American politics takes place. Concept and history of parties in the American context: their nature and function, origin and development. Party organization and structure. State, national, and local party systems and their variations. Nominations and elections.
Political Science^The Politician The Politician The nature of politics, the education of politicians, the structure of ambition, and the ethical values of social behavior in the political world. Sessions with elected officials and party workers on their vocation.
Political Science^American Politics: Campaign Strategy - Media American Politics: Campaign Strategy - Media An inside look at how political campaigns operate from the viewpoint of the media, taught by the people who run them. Class material will be directed towards students who are interested in direct involvement in campaign politics or who are looking for a greater understanding of the political process. Students will be required to develop a complete written campaign strategy document in order to fulfill class requirements. Students will be expected to follow political and campaign news via the media
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course details.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Politics Special Topics in American Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Selected Topics in American Politics-UCDC Selected Topics in American Politics-UCDC Topics will vary.
Political Science^Cal-in-Sacramento Cal-in-Sacramento The purpose of this course is to provide Cal-in-Sacramento interns and other interested UC Berkeley students with a rudimentary understanding of our state government. We will focus on the state legislature and executive branch, exploring both the policy-making process and the politics in Sacramento, which we will learn are quite closely related to one another.
Political Science^The Politics of Displacement The Politics of Displacement Antebellum American political history generally follows a routine script in which the purpose of the Revolution was to liberate Americans for self-government and economic and social development. Slavery is viewed as an anomaly still needing explanation, and Native American relocation as the consequence of natural forces of immigration and pre-modern social values. In this class, the revolution against traditional political authority embodied in Jefferson's and Thomas Paine's attack on the British
Political Science^History of Political Theory History of Political Theory Major theories from the ancient Greeks to the modern period. Ancient and medieval political thought, including Plato, Aristotle, and St. Augustine.
Political Science^History of Political Theory History of Political Theory Early modern political thought up to the French Revolution, including Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau.
Political Science^History of Political Theory History of Political Theory Nineteenth and twentieth century political thought, including Burke, Utilitarianism, Marx, and contemporary theory.
Political Science^History of European Political Theory: The 20th Century History of European Political Theory: The 20th Century This is a survey course that will examine developments in 20th-century European Political Theory. It will focus on theorists' contributions and reactions to various major political and intellectual shifts, including Marxism (as "Western Marxism" and Critical Theory, as well as institutionalized Soviet communism in its heyday); psychoanalysis; and fascism.
Political Science^American Political Theory American Political Theory Basic problems of political theory as viewed within the context of American history and institutions.
Political Science^Theories of Governance: Late 20th Century Theories of Governance: Late 20th Century What is governance? How should we explain its emergence? What are its implications for public policy and democracy? This course uses debates about contemporary governance to examine four approaches to political science and political theory. The approaches are rational choice theory, institutionalism, Marxism, and poststructuralism. The course looks at the narrative that each approach provides of the origins and workings of governance since 1979, and at the way these narratives embody theoretical
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Political Theory Special Topics in Political Theory Intensive study of one topic, problem, or intellectual movement in political theory. See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Three American Cultures Three American Cultures The course will examine three American cultural forms. The focus of the course is to be comparative; readings will center around first-person accounts, written by members of the ethnic groups most immediately involved in each of the cultural forms. The theme is that of identity, seen politically as well as culturally: examining how the various ethnic groups involved came to forge a collective identity for themselves. The three groups studied will vary by instructor. See departmental listings for
Political Science^Politics of European Integration Politics of European Integration The European Union is the world's most advanced experiment in governance beyond the level of the traditional nation-state. Through the European Union, the main members countries have pooled their national sovereignty and created new ways political authority, economic competition, social cohesion, and cultural identity. While specialists in comparative politics focus on the separate countries, scholars in international relations emphasize the construction of supranational institutions and transnational
Political Science^Special Topics in International Relations Special Topics in International Relations See department web site for specific course details.
Political Science^Special Topics in International Relations Special Topics in International Relations See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in International Relations Special Topics in International Relations See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in International Relations Special Topics in International Relations See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in International Relations Special Topics in International Relations See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^War! War! War, what is it good for? Absolutely nothing! Is this necessarily true? Wars are brutal and horrific events, but are they all necessarily the result of miscalculation, accident, or fanaticism? Can war serve a rational purpose? Are wars governed by rules and do states care about these rules? This course is designed for upper-level undergraduate students.
Political Science^Ethics and Justice in International Affairs Ethics and Justice in International Affairs Should nations intervene in other countries to prevent human rights abuses or famine? On what principles should immigration be based? Should wealthy states aid poorer states, and if so, how much? Who should pay for global environmental damage? Answers to these moral questions depend to a great degree on who we believe we have an obligation to: Ourselves? Nationals of our country? Residents of our country? Everyone in the world equally? We will examine different traditions of moral thought including
Political Science^International Political Economy International Political Economy Economic concepts in the study of international political behavior. Political concepts influencing the choice of economic policies.
Political Science^Chinese Foreign Policy Chinese Foreign Policy This course covers the history and analysis of Chinese foreign policy since the inception of the People's Republic of China 1949. Some attention is devoted to pre-1949 Far Eastern international relations, but only as a background to the study of the contemporary period. Emphasis is placed on Sino-American and Sino-Soviet relations, on the domestic determinants of Chinese foreign policy, on the changing nature of China's relations with her Asian neighbors, and on important substantive issues.
Political Science^Chinese Foreign Policy Chinese Foreign Policy Chinese foreign policy from the inception of the People's Republic of China in 1949 to the present. This course aims at providing the student with a sufficient factual base, alternative theoretical approaches and some of the methodological tools useful in studying Chinese foreign policy.
Political Science^Russia after Communism Russia after Communism This course presents a broad introduction to contemporary politics and society in Russia. The social movements and political transformations of the Gorbachev period will be explored. Most of the course is devoted to the post-communist period and current problems of political change and upheaval. Topics to be investigated include the movement from a command economy to capitalism, struggles among emerging social interests, the changing role of the military in society, crime and social disintegration
Political Science^Applied Econometrics and Public Policy Applied Econometrics and Public Policy This course focuses on the sensible application of econometric methods to empirical problems in economics and public policy analysis. It provides background on issues that arise when analyzing non-experimental social science data and a guide for tools that are useful for empirical research. By the end of the course, students will have an understanding of the types of research designs that can lead to convincing analysis and be comfortable working with large scale data sets.
Political Science^Game Theory in the Social Sciences Game Theory in the Social Sciences A non-technical introduction to game theory. Basic principle, and models of interaction among players, with a strong emphasis on applications to political science, economics, and other social sciences.
Political Science^Game Theory in the Social Sciences Game Theory in the Social Sciences This course provides an introduction to game theory and its application in social science, especially political science and economics. The purposes of the course are to give students a sense of the field of game theory and how political scientists use it in making arguments about how government and politics work, to develop students' intuition about strategic situations in everyday life, and to develop students' analytical capabilities generally. Upon completion of the course, students will be able
Political Science^Revolutionary Change Revolutionary Change Theories of revolutionary violence, rebellion, and revolution. Strategies of revolution, terrorism, sources of revolutionary action.
Political Science^The Varieties of Capitalism: Political Economic Systems of the World The Varieties of Capitalism: Political Economic Systems of the World This course examines the interaction between politics and markets, both in theory and in practice, explicitly linking classic works on political economy with current policy debates. We study how political systems and markets are organized in a wide range of different national settings, looking at both history and contemporary issues. Topics include: 1) early industrialization in Britain and the United States, 2) late industrialization in continental Europe and Japan, 3) the varieties of capitalism
Political Science^National Success and Failure in the Age of a Global Economy: from Pleats to Cleats National Success and Failure in the Age of a Global Economy: from Pleats to Cleats In the present era political, economic, and social organization powerfully influence national capacity to assure economic success, real and rising incomes for the population, and political success, basic survival, and the projection of its purposes and values. This course looks at the continual process of international competition and transformation, and examines which factors separate the winners from the losers. We will gain leverage into these questions by examining critical moments in the 20th
Political Science^Development Politics Development Politics Politics of economic development in developing countries. Comparative analysis of the theories and practice of development in the light of contemporary experience. Political strategies of agrarian, industrial, educational, and regional development and their impact on autonomy, welfare, justice, and human development.
Political Science^Urban and Sub-national Politics in Developing Countries Urban and Sub-national Politics in Developing Countries Over half of the world's population is now urban. As urban populations swell, metropolitan areas in both the developed and the developing world struggle to provide basic services and address the negative externalities associated with rapid growth. Sanitation, transportation, pollution, energy services, and public safety typically fall to sub-national governments. Yet local sub-national institutions face difficulties as they tackle these challenges because development tends to spill over political
Political Science^Urban and Sub-national Politics in Developing Countries Urban and Sub-national Politics in Developing Countries Over half of the world's population is now urban. As urban populations swell, metropolitan areas in both the developed and the developing world struggle to provide basic services and address the negative externalities associated with rapid growth. Sanitation, transportation, pollution, energy services, and public safety typically fall to sub-national governments. Yet local sub-national institutions face difficulties as they tackle these challenges because development tends to spill over political
Political Science^Selected Topics in Comparative Politics Selected Topics in Comparative Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Selected Topics in Comparative Politics Selected Topics in Comparative Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Selected Topics in Comparative Politics Selected Topics in Comparative Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Selected Topics in Comparative Politics Selected Topics in Comparative Politics See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Politics and Government in Eastern Europe Politics and Government in Eastern Europe Modern politics and government in the states of Eastern Europe presented within a broader cultural, historical, and sociological framework. Problems of economic underdevelopment and national fragmentation. Comparisons of the pre-Communist, Communist, and post-Communist periods.
Political Science^Middle East Politics Middle East Politics The Middle East in world affairs, international relations and domestic policies of contemporary states in the Middle East; policies and strategy of major powers; supranational movements, regional political and security organizations. The area comprises Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, Israel, and the Arab countries.
Political Science^Northeast Asian Politics Northeast Asian Politics The structure and evolution of political institutions in China, Japan, and Korea. Emphasis upon such topics as nationalism, political modernization, and ideology.
Political Science^Japanese Politics Japanese Politics The structure and evolution of political institutions in Japan. Emphasis upon such topics as political parties, the bureaucracy, social change, and contemporary policy issues.
Political Science^Chinese Politics Chinese Politics An overview of Chinese politics since the fall of the Qing Dynasty. Emphasis on the People's Republic of China and post-Mao reforms.
Political Science^Chinese Politics and Society Chinese Politics and Society This course offers the opportunity to learn about contemporary Chinese politics and society while visiting both famous and ordinary places to see and hear first hand how the Chinese people have experienced over five decades of dramatic change. The course has two components. The first week will be spent on the Berkeley campus and will involve an intensive introduction to the major strands of scholarly work on Chinese politics since the Communist revolution. During this time, students will also have
Political Science^American Foreign Policy Toward Asia American Foreign Policy Toward Asia This course is designed primarily for students interested in exploring in depth the relationship between U.S. foreign policy and developments in East Asia. This course will explore the historical and contemporary foreign policies of the United States toward Asia with an eye toward analyzing the ways in which Asia has been shaped by American, and in turn American policies have been shaped by events in Asia.
Political Science^Politics of Divided Korea Politics of Divided Korea An overview of modern Korea divided into the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The course will compare the two Koreas in terms of political, social and economic institutions, culture, political elites and modernization strategy.
Political Science^South Asian Politics South Asian Politics A comparative analysis of development and change in the political systems of contemporary South Asia.
Political Science^South Asian Politics South Asian Politics A comparative analysis of development and change in the political systems of contemporary South Asia.
Political Science^Understanding Political Developments in India Understanding Political Developments in India This class focuses mostly on the "domestic" politics of India. In addition to providing an overview of political developments in India since independence, this online course assesses the nature of democratic participation and representation in contemporary India - the world's largest democracy.
Political Science^African Politics African Politics Introduction to politics in the states of contemporary sub-Saharan Africa. Comparative study of political institutions and regime transitions; economic crisis and development; political violence and civil conflict.
Political Science^Environment, Culture, and Peacebuilding Environment, Culture, and Peacebuilding The course begins at the global level and moves to the local level in examining the nexus of politics, environment, and culture where conflicts ensue. These conflicts can lead to violence and hardship. They can also result in creative adaptations and solutions based in political and administrative institutions and processes that build peace. The first three weeks of the course examine global trends and institutions; the last three weeks examine the specific dynamics involving land and resource conflict
Political Science^Conflict and Change in Southern Africa Conflict and Change in Southern Africa Combining classroom lectures and discussion with visits to interesting and relevant places in the Cape Town area, this course will be concerned with the dynamics of political change in South Africa. We will sketch the historical evolution of the system of minority racial rule that characterized South Africa until 1994; analyze the process of political upheaval and the transformation that culminated in the transitional election of 1994; examine the process of negotiations and constitution making
Political Science^Contemporary French Politics: The Republican Model in Transition Contemporary French Politics: The Republican Model in Transition French political life has long gravitated around a "Republican model" marked by an unmediated relationship between the citizen and the state, socialization into French values through secular public education, a special vocation for France on the international stage, and an activist state. Recent developments have called the Republican model into question. This course will examine the transformation of France's Republican model - its origins, operations, and responses to contemporary challenges.
Political Science^The Welfare State in Comparative Perspective The Welfare State in Comparative Perspective Comparision of welfare states in Western Europe and North America. Origins of welfare states. Varieties of welfare states. Relationship between welfare states and the economy. Impact of changing social, economic, and family structure states. Contemporary welfare reform.
Political Science^German History and Politics German History and Politics This course provides an introduction to German history, from ancient times to the post-reunification period. Special emphasis will be placed on the history of the city of Berlin. Except for a few preparatory activities in Berkeley, the course will be conducted in Berlin, offering lectures as well as hands-on visits to important places of German history. This is a four-week travel-study course.
Political Science^Latin American Politics Latin American Politics Political institutions, groups and parties in Latin American countries. Basic characteristics of political processes in Latin America; problems of political development and modernization and political change. Comparative study of political systems, institutions, groups and political culture.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course details.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course details.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course details.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course details.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^The American Legal System The American Legal System The nature of the American legal system; the interrelationships of judges, lawyers, police, political officials, bureaucrats, press, and general public; the political and social aspects of the legal process.
Political Science^Constitutional Law of the United States Constitutional Law of the United States Fundamental principles of constitutional law, leading cases, causes, and consequences of legal decisions and their role in influencing, shaping, and constraining the American political system. Judicial Review and the Limits to National Power.
Political Science^Constitutional Law of the United States Constitutional Law of the United States Fundamental principles of constitutional law, leading cases, causes, and consequences of legal decisions and their role in influencing, shaping, and constraining the American political system. Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.
Political Science^Public Opinion, Voting and Participation Public Opinion, Voting and Participation The nature of public opinion, attitude formation, electoral turnout and choice; political cleavages; the role of the mass public.
Political Science^Political Psychology and Involvement Political Psychology and Involvement Personality factors in political behavior; psychological roots of decision-making; leadership; psychological sources of political belief; conflict theory.
Political Science^Psychology of Politics Psychology of Politics This course explores the sources of political beliefs and actions through the application of psychological theories about personality, learning, cognition, and group dynamics. The course begins by briefly considering a number of alternative analytic approaches to linking human nature and politics and then considers such problems as political ideology, persuasion, compliance, protest, violence, and leadership in terms of these approaches. The course considers both mass and elite political behavior.
Political Science^Latinos and the U.S. Political System Latinos and the U.S. Political System This course provides a critical analysis of the political circumstances, political behavior, and the activities and consequences of Latinos (or Hispanics) within the governmental and political system of the United States. Latinos became the nation's largest minority group in 2005 and are also the largest minority group in U.S. elementary/secondary schools. For these and other reasons the situation of Latinos has broad social and political significance.
Political Science^Racial and Ethnic Politics in the New American Century Racial and Ethnic Politics in the New American Century Some of the most enduring and violent conflicts in America center on race. The goal of this course is to explore, discuss, and better understand the relationship between perceptions of racial identity, attributions of racial difference, and politics, broadly defined. We focus on the recent and persistent debates about racism, identity, rights, representation, citizenship, conflict, and coalitions. A repeated theme of this course is the question whether racial order and inequality are essential to
Political Science^Selected Topics in Political Behavior Selected Topics in Political Behavior See departmental announcements.
Political Science^California Politics California Politics An inquiry into the political environment of the state--historical, economic, geographic, and social; its political institutions--government, parties, interest groups, and citizens; and the policies resulting from the interaction of environment and institutions.
Political Science^Political Economy of the California Crisis Political Economy of the California Crisis This course examines the emergence and crisis of California's political economy. An analytical framework is developed that encompasses the secular growth and cyclical variability of California's income, expenditure, and revenue levels. California's economic growth and political development since 1875 will be analyzed. Specific topics covered include the Edmund G. (Pat) Brown era; Proposition 13 and the Ronald Reagan governorship; California's demographic transformation; challenges of minority economic
Political Science^Urban and Metropolitan Government and Politics Urban and Metropolitan Government and Politics The roles of various levels of government--local, regional, state, and national--in politics and policy-making in metropolitan regions.
Political Science^Undergraduate Colloquium on Political Science Undergraduate Colloquium on Political Science Political issues facing the state of California, the United States, or the international community.
Political Science^Public Organization and Administration Public Organization and Administration The methods used to manage the power of the bureaucracy in the American political system. An introduction to theories of organizational behavior. The effects of administrative structure upon the creation and distribution of public benefits.
Political Science^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar H190A is the first of a two-semester research seminar designed to provide support and structure to political science seniors writing an honors thesis. To receive department honors, students must maintain the minimum GPA for honors and complete H190B with a B+ or better. For additional details, please consult the Undergraduate Advising Office or http://www.polisci.berkeley.edu.
Political Science^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar H190B is the second of a two-semester research seminar designed to provide support and structure to political science seniors writing an honors thesis. To receive department honors, students must maintain the minimum GPA for honors and complete H190B with a B+ or better. For additional details, please consult the Undergraduate Advising Office or http://www.polisci.berkeley.edu.
Political Science^Junior Seminar Junior Seminar The seminars will be led by ladder-rank faculty members in the subfields of American Politics, International Relations, and Comparative Politics. These intense writing seminars will focus on the research area of the faculty member teaching the course. The seminars will provide an opportunity for students to have direct intellectual interactions with faculty members while also giving the students an understanding of faculty research.
Political Science^Special Research Project Special Research Project Independent study of an advanced topic resulting in a substantial research paper.
Political Science^UCDC Core Seminar UCDC Core Seminar This course is the UCDC letter-graded core seminar for 4 units that complements the P/NP credited internship course UGIS C196B. Core seminars are designed to enhance the experience of and provide an intellectual framework for the student's internship. UCDC core seminars are taught in sections that cover various tracks such as the Congress, media, bureaucratic organizations and the Executive Branch, international relations, public policy and general un-themed original research.
Political Science^UCDC Internship UCDC Internship This course provides a credited internship for all students enrolled in the UCDC and Cal in the Capital Programs. It must be taken in conjunction with the required academic core course C196A. C196B requires that students work 3-4 days per week as interns in settings selected to provide them with exposure to and experienc in government, public policy, international affairs, media, the arts or other areas or relevance to their major fields of study.
Political Science^Special Field Research Special Field Research Students work in selected internship programs approved in advance by the faculty coordinator and for which written contracts have been established between the sponsoring organization and the student. Students will be expected to produce two progress reports for their faculty coordinator during the course of the internship, as well as a final paper for the course consisting of at least 35 pages. Other restrictions apply; see faculty adviser.
Political Science^UC Sacramento Internship and Research Seminar UC Sacramento Internship and Research Seminar This seminar will introduce students to the theory and practice of policy analysis and development as it relates to legislative action at the state level to maximize students' internship experience. The internship component of the course will provide students with a challenging opportunity to engage in experiential learning in some aspect of the political, policy-making, or governmental processes in California's state capital. This course will permit students to develop a systematic understanding
Political Science^Understanding the Congressional World: A Field Research Seminar Understanding the Congressional World: A Field Research Seminar This research seminar will explore the workings of Congress and its role in making public policy. It combines elective coursework with the original scholarship requirements of a UCDC research seminar and is designed for students in Congressional internships and those considering Congressional staff positions after graduation. In addition to studying the pathways of lawmaking, we will ask how Congress and its Members relate to the other branches of government, the press, and the public.
Political Science^Field Study in Political Science Field Study in Political Science Supervised experience relevant to specific aspects of Political Science in off-campus organizations. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required.
Political Science^Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Directed Group Study for Undergraduates Submission of study proposal by faculty sponsor to the department chairman one month in advance of the semester to be offered. Group studies of selected topics which vary from year to year.
Political Science^Supervised Independent Study and Research for Undergraduates Supervised Independent Study and Research for Undergraduates Enrollment is restricted by departmental regulation.
Political Science^Major Themes in Comparative Analysis Major Themes in Comparative Analysis Subject and texts to be studied vary with instructor. See departmental announcements.
Political Science^Major Themes in Comparative Analysis: Research Design Major Themes in Comparative Analysis: Research Design This course provides an introduction to research design in comparative politics; it is the second semester of the two-semester introductory graduate sequence for the comparative sub-field. We will focus on various topics relevant to doing research, such as how to formulate research questions; develop concepts and measures; bolster the validity of descriptive and causal inferences; and use various qualitative and quantitative methods in the service of diverse substantive agenda. Developing the
Political Science^Comparative Analysis of Industrial Democracies Comparative Analysis of Industrial Democracies The comparative study of politics in Western societies. The place of parties, political structures, interest groups, and economic institutions. The relation between domestic political developments and the international system. The effect of economic development on political change. The effect of labor politics on national politics.
Political Science^Comparative Analysis of Industrial Democracies Comparative Analysis of Industrial Democracies The comparative study of politics in Western societies. The place of parties, political structures, interest groups, and economic institutions. The relation between domestic political developments and the international system. The effect of economic development on political change. The effect of labor politics on national politics.
Political Science^Governance of the E-conomy Governance of the E-conomy New digital technologies, changing market structures, and innovative business organizations are transforming the economic and social landscape of the advanced industrial countries. The policy issues associated with this transformation pose fundamental philosophical and political questions of how to organize our markets, polity, and society. The means of making and implementing these choices is politics. The necessarily global scope of the E-conomy extends the political and policy challenges to the
Political Science^Theories of Development and Political Change Theories of Development and Political Change Issues of social organization and political change. Theories of progress, development, modernization and dependence.
Political Science^Urban and Subnational Politics in Developing Countries Urban and Subnational Politics in Developing Countries Metropolitan areas in the developing world face enormous challenges. This course will consider the political and institutional environment in which efforts to address metropolitan problems are developed, the financial and institutional vehicles used to provide services of different types, and the role of political parties and other political organizations in the development and allocation of services. Readings will be drawn from Political Science, Sociology, Geography, and Economics.
Political Science^Urban and Subnational Politics in Developing Countries Urban and Subnational Politics in Developing Countries This course will consider the political and institutional environment in which efforts to address metropolitan problems are developed, the financial and institutional vehicles used to provide services of different types, and the role of political parties and other forms of political organization in the development and allocation of services. Emphasis will be placed upon fertile areas for research within the social sciences.
Political Science^Comparative Party Systems Comparative Party Systems Why are there political parties? The origins of parties in issue cleavages, legislatures, social movements, and personal followings. Types of parties. The political machine, the ideological party, third parties, flash parties. Federalism and political parties. Intra-party competition and selection of leaders. What do parties try to maximize: votes? ideological purity? personal security of party professionals? How parties change: reform movements, issue crises, external social movements.
Political Science^Political Violence Political Violence This graduate seminar is designed to introduce students to the comparative study of political violence. The course examines two broad themes through a variety of theoretical and empirical approaches. The first theme focuses on why individuals choose to rebel: When does violence become a strategy for resolving conflict? Why do individuals participate in violence? How is violence organized? The second theme focuses on how states choose to repress citizens: When are human rights violations committed?
Political Science^Comparative Political Economy Comparative Political Economy This seminar provides an introduction to the major debates in comparative political economy. Although the empirical focus is on the affluent democracies, many of the debates and issues analyzed have implications for other regions. The course is divided into two main parts. The first part examines leading theoretical perspectives on political economy, such as Friedman, Marx, Weber, and Polanyi. The second part of the course is more topical. It probes a number of examples of economic development,
Political Science^Post Fordism: New Patterns of Production, Time, and Meaning in Contemporary Capitalism Post Fordism: New Patterns of Production, Time, and Meaning in Contemporary Capitalism With changes in technology, the internationalization of production and the massive increase in trans-border transactions of all kinds, it has been argued that we live and work in an era of substantively different capitalism. Were this true, it has deep implications for politics and for political economy. This graduate seminar explores the validity of this claim of a "new capitalism" through a variety of materials, starting with the question of whether "Fordism" ever existed,
Political Science^Selected Topics in Comparative Politics Selected Topics in Comparative Politics See departmental announcements. Topic will vary with instructor.
Political Science^History of Political Thought: Ancient and Medieval History of Political Thought: Ancient and Medieval A weekly seminar on political thought from the ancient Greeks to the Renaissance. Ancient and medieval political theorist, typically including Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, and Aquinas.
Political Science^History of Political Thought: Early Modern (Renaissance to French Revolution) History of Political Thought: Early Modern (Renaissance to French Revolution) A weekly seminar on political thought from the Renaissance to the French Revolution. Early modern political theorist, typically including Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau.
Political Science^History of Political Thought: Modern (French Revolution through World War II) History of Political Thought: Modern (French Revolution through World War II) A weekly seminar on political thought in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Modern political theorists, typically including Tocqueville, Hegel, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Weber.
Political Science^Methodological Topics in the History of Political Thought Methodological Topics in the History of Political Thought A weekly seminar on approaches to the history of political thought. Theoretical topics, typically including the nature of meaning and textuality, validity, and historical explanation.
Political Science^Symposium in the History of Political Thought Symposium in the History of Political Thought An intensive examination of theorists, theories, or concepts in the history of political thought.
Political Science^Approaches to Contemporary Political Theory Approaches to Contemporary Political Theory A weekly seminar on contemporary approaches to political theory.
Political Science^Topics to Contemporary Political Theory Topics to Contemporary Political Theory A weekly seminar on leading topics in contemporary political theory.
Political Science^Symposium in Contemporary Political Theory Symposium in Contemporary Political Theory An intensive examination of a contemporary theorist, debate, or issue.
Political Science^Theories of International Relations Theories of International Relations Origin, application and utility of major concepts featured in the study of international relations. Relation of various strands of political and social theory to international relations.
Political Science^Selected Topics in International Relations Selected Topics in International Relations See departmental announcements. Topic will vary with instructor.
Political Science^Sociological Traditions in International Relations Sociological Traditions in International Relations This seminar traces the development of the constructivist program in international relations in order to better understand its elements, assumptions, and methods and apply those to current issues. We start by uncovering the roots of constructivism in sociology and philosophy and examine structuation theory, the English School, world systems theory, regime theory, and sociological institutionalism. The second part of this course focuses on the constructivist agenda in international relations, its
Political Science^International Security International Security The goal of this course is to introduce advanced political science graduate students to current debates in the field of international security and to prepare these students for conducting dissertation research in their own areas of interest within this field. This course is designed for advanced political science graduate students preparing to commence their dissertation research. Its orientation is theoretical rather than empirical and it is both reading and research.
Political Science^Constructivism Constructivism This seminar traces the development of the constructivist program in international relations in order to better understand its elements, assumptions, and methods and apply those to current issues. We start by uncovering the roots of constructivism in sociology and philosophy and examine structuation theory, the English School, world systems theory, regime theory, and sociological institutionalism. The second part of this course focuses on the constructivist agenda in international relations, its
Political Science^The Empirical Analysis of International Security The Empirical Analysis of International Security This course offers an introduction to the empirical analysis of International Security. The primary goals are 1) to acquaint students with the empirical knowledge in the field of International Security that has been produced with quantitative approaches and 2) to help students develop and hone their skills in empirical analysis. Therefore, particular emphasis will be given on how to go beyond being "consumers" of empirical research and how to become "producers" of novel empirical
Political Science^Religion and International Relations Religion and International Relations How has religion shaped the structure of the international system? How should IR scholars approach the role that religion plays in contemporary affairs? How does religion constrain or motivate international conflict? This seminar seeks to guide students through readings in the social sciences, from psychology and sociology to anthropology and political science, that explore the intersection of religion and international relations. We will examine a variety of theoretical approaches to the topic
Political Science^International Political Economy International Political Economy The creation, maintenance, transformation, and decay of international arrangements designed to manage or regulate interstate activities relating to trade, money, resource use, technology, and physical environment.
Political Science^Civil Conflict and International Intervention Civil Conflict and International Intervention Civil conflict, committed primarily by non-state actors, often results in international intervention in some form. This course, then, focuses on two themes: first, why does civil conflict occur? What motivates individuals and groups to resort to violence? What tactics do they use? How do they expect to succeed? Second, why do international actors intervene in civil conflict? What are their aims in intervening? Are they successful in those goals or in others?
Political Science^Essential Methodological Tools Essential Methodological Tools This course presents essential methodological concepts, ideas, and tools students need to know before beginning their study of the formal and quantitative methods tools used in political science research. Topics covered include functions, limits, continuity, calculus, optimization, probability and statistics, and linear algebra. Entire courses are often devoted to each of these topics (e.g., MATH 1A-1B, 53, 54; Stat 101, 134, 135), and this course clearly cannot provide an equally comprehensive
Political Science^Quantitative Analysis in Political Research Quantitative Analysis in Political Research Introductory course in the analysis of political data.
Political Science^Formal Models of Political Science Formal Models of Political Science Mathematical models of politics with applications to political learning, bargaining, and democratic theory. Topics from game theory, collective choice theory, and mathematical psychology.
Political Science^Formal Models of Political Science Formal Models of Political Science This course emphasizes the application of the formal analytic tools to current or significant research in political science.
Political Science^Public Policy and Business Public Policy and Business The course will study public policy in its connection with business. Policy is seen as an endogenous outcome of a game where diverse political forces try to shape public decisions to their advantage. The focus is broad, covering both theory and evidence. The aim is to analyze how a wide range of political institutions and processes affect public policy and economic performance. The ultimate goal of the course is to acquaint students with the topics at hand, and to consolidate their control of formal
Political Science^Qualitative and Multi-Method Research Qualitative and Multi-Method Research This course introduces diverse methodological tools, following the premise that all methods are strengthened if linked to qualitative analysis. Explores alternative approaches to concept formation, measurement, and causal inference, based on large- and small-N analysis and case studies. Analytic tensions that motivate the course derive from, among other sources, the pressure on case-study and small-N researchers to strive for analytic rigor and generality; and the skepticism of some statisticians
Political Science^Introduction to Research Methods Introduction to Research Methods Overview of methods of political research. Theories, concepts, variables, hypotheses. Research design, quantitative and qualitative methodology. Basic data collection techniques. Approaches to data analysis. Provides an overview of different statistical techniques, but does not teach statistics .
Political Science^The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Sciences The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Sciences Approaches to causal inference using the potential outcomes framework. Covers observational studies with and without ignorable treatment assignment, randomized experiments with and without noncompliance, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity, sensitivity analysis, and random inference. Applications are drawn from a variety of fields including political science, economics, sociology, public health, and medicine.
Political Science^Quantitative Methodology in the Social Sciences Seminar Quantitative Methodology in the Social Sciences Seminar A seminar on successful research designs and a forum for students to discuss the research methods needed in their own work, supplemented by lectures on relevant statistical and computational topics such as matching methods, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity, and Bayesian, maximum likelihood and robust estimation. Applications are drawn from political science, economics, sociology, and public health. Experience with R is assumed.
Political Science^The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Science The Statistics of Causal Inference in the Social Science Approaches to causal inference using the potential outcomes framework. Covers observational studies with and without ignorable treatment assignment, randomized experiments with and without noncompliance, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity, sensitivity analysis and randomization inference. Applications are drawn from a variety of fields including political science, economics, sociology, public health and medicine.
Political Science^Political Economics Political Economics Tools of political economics: preferences and institutions, electoral competition, agency, partisan politics. Redistributive politics: general interest politics, special interest politics. Comparative politics: electoral rules, separation of powers, political regimes. Dynamic politics: fiscal policy, growth.
Political Science^Political Economics Political Economics Tools of political economics: preferences and institutions, electoral competition, agency, partisan politics. Redistributive politics: general interest politics, special interest politics. Comparative politics: electoral rules, separation of powers, political regimes. Dynamic politics: fiscal policy, growth.
Political Science^Selected Topics in Methodology Selected Topics in Methodology See departmental announcements. Topic will vary with instructor.
Political Science^An Introduction to Computational Tools and Techniques for Social Science Research An Introduction to Computational Tools and Techniques for Social Science Research This course will provide students with necessary technology skills for the Political Science methods curriculum. It will introduce students to both the software programs and the basic computational and programming skills that students will need to be successful in further methods work. This course is not an introduction to statistics. Some familiarity with basic statistics or linear regression may be helpful, but is neither expected nor required.
Political Science^Political Authority and Economic Exchange in East Asia Political Authority and Economic Exchange in East Asia This course will compare how authority and exchange relations are combined to regulate political and economic activities in China, Taiwan, South Korea, North Korea, and Japan. The course will examine theoretical literature on state-society relations, market, world system, late development, as well as empirical case studies dealing with each nation covered.
Political Science^Japanese Politics Japanese Politics Japanese domestic politics--issues in historical development; political bureaucratic and legal structures; studies in economic policymaking.
Political Science^Analysis of Contemporary China Analysis of Contemporary China This is the first in a two-semester sequence designed to provide the incoming graduate student with a basic grounding in the politics of contemporary China. The focus will be on wide reading and comprehension of the available analytical literature; its sequel will be devoted to integrating that reading with primary source research materials. There are no prerequisites, though undergraduate course work in Chinese politics and/or some acquaintance with the Chinese language would be useful.
Political Science^Approaches to Chinese Politics Approaches to Chinese Politics This course has three main objectives: to expose students to debates in the study of post-1949 Chinese politics; to consider how research on contemporary China both draws from and informs political science; and to explore characterizations of the Chinese state and state-society relations. Emphasis on questions such as: What can we learn by examining Chinese culture and institutions? Do concepts such as fragmented authoritarianism, neotraditionalism, state "reach," civil society, and corporatism
Political Science^Collective Action in China Collective Action in China This course will explore contentious politics in the People's Republic of China. Special attention to the current era and dissent by peasants, migrants, workers, religious groups, women, students, artists, and dissidents. How do concepts drawn from social movement theory help us understand popular activism? What are the consequences of protest for regime stability and the development of a more complete citizenship?
Political Science^South Asian Politics South Asian Politics Major themes of politics and international relations in India, Pakistan, Burma and the mountain kingdoms.
Political Science^International Relations in East Asia International Relations in East Asia This seminar will focus on postwar relations among the countries in East Asia. Asia was long divided by colonialism, the Cold War, and America's "hub and spoke" alliance system. Nationalist sentiments and suspicions remain strong; one scholar characterized the region as "the cockpit of great power rivalries." Northeast Asia has seen no shooting wars between states since the Korean armistice in 1953; Southeast Asia has been at peace since the pullback of Vietnam from Cambodia
Political Science^Ethnic Politics Ethnic Politics This graduate seminar is designed to introduce students to the comparative study of ethnic politics. It provides an overview of theoretical questions and methodological innovations across five topics: the conceptualization and measurement of ethnicity; the sources of ethnic mobilization and cleavage choice; the consequences of ethnic mobilization for democratization and democracy; the impact of ethnicity on redistributive politics; and the relationship between ethnicity and patterns of violence
Political Science^Western European Politics Western European Politics Major themes of politics and international relations of Western Europe.
Political Science^The Comparative Politics of the Welfare State The Comparative Politics of the Welfare State This course analyzes the politics of social protection in Western Europe and the United States. After describing different national welfare regimes, we turn to contemporary challenges, notably globalization, persistent poverty, and changes in family forms and gender roles. We also look at the politics of welfare retrenchment and adjustment, paying particular attention to the prospects for progressive social policy. Must reform inevitably scale back protections for the weak and vulnerable, or can
Political Science^Latin American Politics Latin American Politics Explores different analytical approaches to Latin American politics, focusing both on major concepts (clientelism, corporatism, the state, legitimacy, nationalism) and different explanatory approaches (focusing on factors such as dependency and imperialism, internal social order and economic change, political structure and institutions and political culture).
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Special Topics in Area Studies Special Topics in Area Studies See department web site for specific course offerings.
Political Science^Courts and the State Courts and the State The course is a political science graduate seminar that will focus on courts' relationship to other political institutions, particularly but not exclusively in the American separation of powers context, with an emphasis on readings from institutionalist (both historical and rational choice) perspectives.
Political Science^Legal Theory and Institutions Legal Theory and Institutions The organization and behavior of legal institutions, with particular reference to American courts and administrative agencies. Institutional responses to problems of legality, authority, policy choice, and the organization of enforcement and decision-making processes. Readings include empirical studies, judicial opinions, jurisprudential writings and organization theory.
Political Science^Constitutional Law Constitutional Law Fundamental principles of constitutional law, leading cases, judicial decisions affecting the liabilities, rights, duties and procedures of governmental officers and agencies, causes and consequences of legal decision, judicial behavior.
Political Science^Selected Topics in Public law Selected Topics in Public law See departmental announcements. Topic will vary with instructor.
Political Science^Political Behavior Political Behavior A comprehensive review of the major topics in political behavior through intensive examination of the theories, findings, and proceedings of the most significant studies in the field.
Political Science^Voting Behavior and Public Opinion Voting Behavior and Public Opinion Examination of the basic literature on American voting behavior, public opinion and student research on individually selected topics in this field.
Political Science^Mass Politics in Advanced Industrial Democracies Mass Politics in Advanced Industrial Democracies Theories and evidence concerning political conflict in advanced industrial societies. The empirical focus is on mass politics: the beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors of ordinary citizens rather than of activists or elites. The principal theoretical focus is on how changes in social structure, culture, and political institutions influence patterns of political cleavages. The analysis is largely comparative, with attention to the issue of American exceptionalism versus cultural and policy convergence.
Political Science^Selected Topics in Political Behavior Selected Topics in Political Behavior See departmental announcements. Topic will vary with instructor.
Political Science^American Government and Political Field Seminar American Government and Political Field Seminar This seminar is designed to acquaint students with current research approaches in various subfields of American Politics. Particular attention will be given to debates over theory, methodology, and substance. The seminar is not designed to provide a complete survey of the field. Students planning to be examined in American Politics are expected to master recommended readings on their own and should review additional readings included in versions of this seminar offered in the past years.
Political Science^Urban Politics Urban Politics Politics and policy-making in American cities. Historical, economic and social context of cities. Major urban political institutions, other levels of government in urban affairs.
Political Science^American Political Development American Political Development This course will consider several broad themes in American political development. The objective is to extract the central conditions, processes, and controversies that scholars have found running through American political development and try to come to terms with possible relations among them.
Political Science^Selected Topics in American Government Selected Topics in American Government See departmental announcements. Topic will vary with instructor.
Political Science^Public Organization Theory Public Organization Theory A survey of the literature of organization and management theory, emphasizing the major writers and distinctive contributions of various disciplines.
Political Science^Strategies of Contemporary Governance Strategies of Contemporary Governance This course explores the implications of new strategies for coping with social problems and managing public programs. In response to growing criticism of government bureaucracy, public skepticism of expert authority, and an explosion of advocacy groups, a variety of new governance strategies have been developed. These new strategies are characterized by five broad themes: the use of markets or market mechanisms to increase efficiency; an emphasis on holding public agencies accountable and making
Political Science^Research Topics in Public Organization Research Topics in Public Organization See departmental announcements.
Political Science^Dissertation Research Dissertation Research Seminar to aid students in initiating, carrying out, and completing dissertation research. Problems of planning dissertation research, the preparation of research designs and proposals for outside funding, field work, and writing and presenting the results of completed research. Presentations by graduate students working on their dissertations.
Political Science^Research Workshop in American Politics Research Workshop in American Politics A forum for the presentation and discussion of research in progress by graduate students. To receive two units of credit, a student must make at least one presentation of work in progress and serve as a discussant for another student's presentation. To receive one unit of credit a student must regularly attend class and participate in discussion, but will not be required to make a presentation. Appropriate works in progress include (but are not limited to) a paper in preparation for submission to
Political Science^Research Workshop in Area Studies Research Workshop in Area Studies A forum for the presentation and discussion of research in progress by graduate students (second year and above). To receive credit for the course, the student will make at least one presentation of work in progress per semester and to serve as a discussant for another student's work. Appropriate works-in progress include (but not limited to) a paper in preparation for submission to a journal a dissertation prospectus (including early drafts), dissertation chapter, or a job market paper. Anyone
Political Science^Research Workshop in Formal Modeling Research Workshop in Formal Modeling A forum for the presentation and discussion of research in formal modeling. Anyone working on formal modeling or empirical testing of formal models is welcome to attend. To receive credit for the course, a student must attend regularly, participate actively, and make at least two presentations per semester. Presentations can be of the student's own work-in-progress or of work by other scholars (including both influential/classic works or interesting current working papers).
Political Science^Research Workshop in International Relations Research Workshop in International Relations A forum for the presentation and discussion of research in progress by graduate students (second year and above). To receive credit for the course, the students will make at least one presentation of work-in-progress per semester and to serve as a discussant for another student's work. Appropriate works-in-progress include (but not limited to) a paper in preparation for submission to a journal a dissertation prospectus (including early drafts), dissertation chapter, or a job market paper. Anyone
Political Science^Research Workshop in Theory Research Workshop in Theory A forum for the presentation and discussion of research in progress by graduate students (second year and above). To receive credit for the course, the student will make at least one presentation of work in progress per semester and to serve as a discussant for another student's work. Appropriate works-in-progress include (but are not limited to) a paper in preparation for submission to a journal, a dissertation prospectus (including early drafts), a dissertation chapter, or a job market paper.
Political Science^Directed Advanced Study Directed Advanced Study Open to qualified graduate students wishing to pursue special study and research under direction of a member of the staff.
Political Science^Directed Dissertation Research Directed Dissertation Research Open to qualified students advanced to candidacy for the Ph.D. degree.
Political Science^Special Study in Political Science Special Study in Political Science Special individual study for qualified graduate students.
Political Science^Graduate Student Instructor Training Seminar Graduate Student Instructor Training Seminar This course is intended for all new graduate student instructors (GSI) in the Department of Political Science, and is meant to be taken simultaneously with the first semester of teaching as a GSI. The course functions as a participatory workshop. Although the course is intended for first-time GSIs, it is not a course in "how to be a GSI," but rather, how to be an effective political science teacher, now and at later steps in professional careers. Workshop time will be divided among presentations
Political Science^Professional Preparation for Graduate Student Instructors. Professional Preparation for Graduate Student Instructors. Special study under the direction of a staff member with emphasis on the teaching of undergraduate courses in political science.
Political Science^Research Skills Research Skills Individual research work under supervision of faculty members. Open to students engaged in supervised research projects in Political Science.
Geography^Global Environmental Change Global Environmental Change The global pattern of climate, landforms, vegetation, and soils. The relative importance of natural and human-induced change, global warming, forest clearance, accelerated soil erosion, glacial/postglacial climate change and its consequences.
Geography^Global Environmental Change Global Environmental Change The global pattern of climate, landforms, vegetation, and soils. The relative importance of natural and human-induced change, global warming, forest clearance, accelerated soil erosion, glacial/postglacial climate change and its consequences.
Geography^World Peoples and Cultural Environments World Peoples and Cultural Environments Historical and contemporary cultural-environmental patterns. The development and spread of cultural adaptations, human use of resources, transformation and creation of human environments.
Geography^World Peoples and Cultural Environments World Peoples and Cultural Environments Historical and contemporary cultural-environmental patterns. The development and spread of cultural adaptations, human use of resources, transformation and creation of human environments.
Geography^World Regions, Peoples, and States World Regions, Peoples, and States This course will provide a framework for recognizing and analyzing the major distinctive regions of the world in comparative context. The most important interrelations between environment, economy, ethnicity, and the national identity and viability of states will be explored.
Geography^Globalization Globalization How and why are geographical patterns of employment, production, and consumption unstable in the contemporary world? What are the consequences of NAFTA, an expanded European Community, and post-colonial migration flows? How is global restructuring culturally reworked locally and nationally?
Geography^Globalization Globalization Global economics and politics are undergoing a revolution. Transnational enterprises, international trade, and digitized finance are merging its formerly separate national economies. New regional and transnational treaties and institutions, from the EU and NAFTA to the IMF, the WTO and the World Bank, are arising to regulate the new global economy. Power is being transferred from national states to these institutions, not always smoothly or in predictable ways. This course is about this medley.
Geography^Justice, Nature, and the Geographies of Identity Justice, Nature, and the Geographies of Identity The intersection of nature, identity, and politics pepper the pages of newspapers almost every day from stories of toxic waste sites, crime, genetic engineering to indigenous struggles, and terrorist tendencies. In all these and many other cases, ideas of race, class, and gender intersect with ideas of nature and geography in often tenacious and troubling ways. Our approach will be to understand these traditional ideas of environmental justice as well as to examine less traditional sites of environmental
Geography^Introduction to Development Introduction to Development This course is designed as an introduction to comparative development. The course will be a general service course, as well as a prerequisite for the upper division 100 series. It is assumed that students enrolled in 10 know little about life in the Third World countries and are unfamiliar with the relevant theory in political economy of development and underdevelopment. The course will be structured around three critical concepts: land, labor, and work.
Geography^Global Ecology and Development Global Ecology and Development Problems of Third World poverty and development have come to be seen as inseparable from environmental health and sustainability. The course explores the global and interconnected character of environment and development in the less developed world. Drawing on case studies of the environmental problems of the newly industrializing states, food problems, and environmental security in Africa, and the global consequences of tropical deforestation in Amazonia and carbon dioxide emissions in China, this
Geography^The Politics of Science and Technology The Politics of Science and Technology This course examines how shifting understandings of science and technology have radically remade some of our most basic social and biological categories and concepts. The course explores the field of science and technology studies. In particular, students will explore formations and understandings of truth, objectivity, universality of science and technology, and the consequences of these cultural formations in contemporary debates around the world.
Geography^Introduction to Earth System Science Introduction to Earth System Science The goals of this introductory Earth System Science course are to achieve a scientific understanding of important problems in global environmental change and to learn how to analyze a complex system using scientific methods. Earth System Science is an interdisciplinary field that describes the cycling of energy and matter between the different spheres (atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, cryosphere, and lithosphere) of the earth system. Under the overarching themes of human-induced climate change
Geography^California California California had been called "the great exception" and "America, only more so." Yet few of us pay attention to its distinctive traits and to its effects beyond our borders. California may be "a state of mind," but it is also the most dynamic place in the most powerful country in the world, and would be the 8th largest economy if it were a country. Its wealth has been built on mining, agriculture, industry, trade, and finance. Natural abundance and geographic advantage
Geography^California California California had been called "the great exception" and "America, only more so." Yet few of us pay attention to its distinctive traits and to its effects beyond our borders. California may be "a state of mind," but it is also the most dynamic place in the most powerful country in the world, and would be the 8th largest economy if it were a country. Its wealth has been built on mining, agriculture, industry, trade, and finance. Natural abundance and geographic advantage
Geography^Introduction to Central Asia Introduction to Central Asia This course will introduce the student not only to ancient and modern Central Asia, but also to the role played by the region in the shaping of the history of neighboring regions and regimes. The course will outline the history, languages, ethnicities, religions, and archaeology of the region and will acquaint the student with the historical foundations of some of the political, social and economic challenges for contemporary post-Soviet Central Asian republics.
Geography^The Urban Experience The Urban Experience We will track the historical evolution of the American city. We'll look at the economics of city life, at the organization of metropolitan political power, and at the aesthetics of the urban scene--to see how the core cultural themes of American urban life have endured over time while continuously adjusting to new circumstances. Our approach is to focus on major themes in urban life and to show how various groups have had different kinds of experiences in these urban realms.
Geography^Digital Worlds: An Introduction to Geospatial Technologies Digital Worlds: An Introduction to Geospatial Technologies An introduction to the increasingly diverse range of geospatial technologies and tools including but not limited to geographical information systems (GIS). Via a mix of lecture and lab-based instruction, students will develop knowledge and skills in web-mapping and GIS. How these tools are used to represent fundamental geographic concepts, and the wider socioeconomic context of these technologies will also be explored.
Geography^Oceans Oceans This course offers multidisciplinary approach to begin answering the question "Why are oceans important to us?" Upon a physical, chemical, and geologic base, we introduce the alien world of sea life, the importance of the ocean to the global carbon cycle, and the principles of ecology with a focus on the important concept of energy flow through food webs. Lectures expand beyond science to include current topics as diverse as music, movies, mythology, biomechanics, policy, and trade.
Geography^Prehistoric Agriculture Prehistoric Agriculture Agricultural origins and dispersals in the light of recent biological and archaeological evidence.
Geography^Economic Geography of the Industrial World Economic Geography of the Industrial World Industrialization, urbanization, and economic growth in the global North. Locational patterns in manufacturing, retailing trade, and finance. Geographic dynamics of technical change, employment, business organization, resource use, and divisions of labor. Property, labor, and social conflict as geographic forces. Local, national, and continental rivalries in a global economy, and challenges to U.S. dominance.
Geography^History of Development and Underdevelopment History of Development and Underdevelopment Historical review of the development of world economic systems and the impact of these developments on less advanced countries. Course objective is to provide a background against which to understand and assess theoretical interpretations of development and underdevelopment.
Geography^Postcolonial Geographies Postcolonial Geographies Postcolonial studies focus on how processes of colonialism/imperialism continue even after the formal dissolution of empire. A central argument of this course is that critical human geography can make important contributions to understanding the interconnections between forces at play in different parts of the world. Drawing on concepts of space, place, culture, power, and difference, its purpose is to provide a set of tools for grappling with the conditions in which we find ourselves, and for thinking
Geography^The American City The American City The American city, palimpsest of a nation. It all comes together in the modern metropolis: economy, society, politics, culture, and geography. Cities as the economic engines of capitalism, centers of industry, finance, business, consumption, and innovation. Cities as political powers and political pawns, and the government of cities, suburbs, and metropolitan areas. Cities as magnificent constructs, built of concrete, credit and land rents, from skyscrapers to housing tracts, freeways to shopping
Geography^Food and the Environment Food and the Environment How do human populations organize and alter natural resources and ecosystems to produce food? The role of agriculture in the world economy, national development, and environmental degradation in the Global North and the Global South. The origins of scarcity and abundance, population growth, hunger and obesity, and poverty.
Geography^Food and the Environment Food and the Environment How do human populations organize and alter natural resources and ecosystems to produce food? The role of agriculture in the world economy, national development, and environmental degradation in the Global North and the Global South. The origins of scarcity and abundance, population growth, hunger and obesity, and poverty.
Geography^Water Resources and the Environment Water Resources and the Environment Distribution, dynamics, and use of water resources in the global environment. Water scarcity, water rights, and water wars. The terrestrial hydrologic cycle. Contemporary environmental issues in water resource management, including droughts, floods, saltwater intrusion, water contamination and remediation, river restoration, hydraulic fracturing, dams, and engineering of waterways. The role of water in ecosystem processes and geomorphology. How water resources are measured and monitored. Basic water
Geography^Terrestrial Hydrology Terrestrial Hydrology A quantitative introduction to the hydrology of the terrestrial environment including lower atmosphere, watersheds, lakes, and streams. All aspects of the hydrologic cycle, including precipitation, infiltration, evapotranspiration, overland flow, streamflow, and groundwater flow. Chemistry and dating of groundwater and surface water. Development of quantitative insights through problem solving and use of simple models. This course requires one field experiment and several group computer lab assignments.
Geography^Top Ten Global Environmental Problems Top Ten Global Environmental Problems Conceptualizing global environmental problems is difficult because of the complexity of the issues, the magnitude of the problems, and the different time scales of action versus reaction. These issues apply both to the natural earth system as well as human societies. This course will examine the scientific basis underlying the largest environmental threats, and then reframe the issues to explore the societal basis of those problems. Class is not open to freshmen.
Geography^Global Environmental Politics Global Environmental Politics Political factors affecting ecological conditions in the Third World. Topics include environmental degradation, migrations, agricultural production, role of international aid, divergence in standard of living, political power, participation and decision making, access to resources, global environmental policies and treaties, political strife and war.
Geography^Atmospheric Physics and Dynamics Atmospheric Physics and Dynamics This course examines the processes that determine the structure and circulation of the Earth's atmosphere. The approach is deductive rather than descriptive: to figure out the properties and behavior of the Earth's atmosphere based on the laws of physics and fluid dynamics. Topics will include interaction between radiation and atmospheric composition; the role of water in the energy and radiation balance; governing equations for atmospheric motion, mass conservation, and thermodynamic energy balance;
Geography^Physical Landscapes: Process and Form Physical Landscapes: Process and Form Understanding the physical characteristics of the Earth's surface, and the processes active on it, is essential for maintaining the long-term health of the environment, and for appreciating the unique, defining qualities of geographic regions. In this course, we build an understanding of global tectonics, rivers, hillslopes, and coastlines and discover how these act in concert with the underlying geologic framework to produce the magnificent landscapes of our planet. Through our review of formative
Geography^Climate Dynamics Climate Dynamics This course examines how various components of the climate system--the atmosphere, ocean, land, and cryosphere--interact in determining its observed state. Covered topics: observations of the climate system; the earth's energy balance; atmospheric radiative transfer; the surface energy balance; the hydrologic cycle; atmospheric circulation and its relation to the energy balance; the role of the ocean and the cryosphere. Additional topics, as time permits, will cover climate change, natural and anthropogenic;
Geography^Global Change Biogeochemistry Global Change Biogeochemistry How does the chemical makeup of Earth make it suitable for life? And how does life in turn alter the chemistry of our planet? Biogeochemistry is the field of science that explores the imprint of biota (including humans) on the chemistry of the ocean, land and atmosphere. This interdisciplinary field addresses global problems, including climate change feedbacks, air quality, land use change, and marine ecosystem health. We will provide an overview of the major biogeochemical cycles, discuss the biogeochemistry
Geography^Principles of Meteorology Principles of Meteorology Weather development in relation to different scales of atmospheric circulation including analysis and forecasting with examples from the Northeastern Pacific-Western North American area.
Geography^Geological Oceanography Geological Oceanography The tectonics and morphology of the sea floor, the geologic processes in the deep and shelf seas, and the climatic record contained in deep-sea sediments. The course will cover sources and composition of marine sediments, sea-level change, ocean circulation, paleoenvironmental reconstruction using fossils, imprint of climatic zonation on marine sediments, marine stratigraphy, and ocean floor resources.
Geography^Communicating Ocean Science Communicating Ocean Science For undergraduates interested in improving their ability to communicate their scientific knowledge by teaching ocean science in elementary schools or science centers/aquariums. The course will combine instruction in inquiry-based teaching methods and learning pedagogy with six weeks of supervised teaching experience in a local school classroom or the Lawrence Hall of Science with a partner. Thus, students will practice communicating scientific knowledge and receive mentoring on how to improve their
Geography^Biogeography Biogeography Changing distribution patterns of plants and animals on a variety of spatial and temporal scales. The effects of "continental drift," Pleistocene climatic change, agricultural origins and dispersals. The ecology of invasions and extinctions. Island biogeography.
Geography^Central American Peoples and Cultures Central American Peoples and Cultures A comparative survey of the peoples and cultures of the seven countries of the Central American Isthmus from a historical and contemporary perspective.
Geography^The Southern Border The Southern Border The southern border--from California to Florida--is the longest physical divide between the First and Third Worlds. This course will examine the border as a distinct landscape where North-South relations take on a specific spatial and cultural dimension, and as a region which has been the testing ground for such issues as free trade, immigration, and ethnic politics.
Geography^American Cultural Landscapes, 1600 to 1900 American Cultural Landscapes, 1600 to 1900 Introduces ways of seeing and interpreting American histories and cultures, as revealed in everyday built surroundings-- houses, highways, farms, factories, stores, recreation areas, small towns, city districts, and regions. Encourages students to read landscapes as records of past and present social relations and to speculate for themselves about cultural meaning.
Geography^American Cultural Landscapes, 1900 to Present American Cultural Landscapes, 1900 to Present Introduces ways of seeing and interpreting American histories and cultures, as revealed in everyday built surroundings--homes, highways, farms, factories, stores, recreation areas, small towns, city districts, and regions. Encourages students to read landscapes as records of past and present social relations, and to speculate for themselves about cultural meaning.
Geography^The Geography of Economic Development in China The Geography of Economic Development in China This course focuses on four issues in contemporary China: (1) the transformation of the socialist state, (2) the environmental politics, (3) the interplay of gender and class in the transitional society, (4) urban expansion and the changing rural-urban dynamics, and (5) global China. Each of these issues will be examined with reference to critical theories of development and histories of China's modernization. This is a lecture course designed mainly for upper level undergraduate students with preliminary
Geography^Special Topics in Geography Special Topics in Geography This course is designed to provide a vehicle for instructors to address a topic with which they are especially concerned; usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. Topics will vary with instructor. See departmental announcements.
Geography^Special Topics in Physical Geography Special Topics in Physical Geography This course is designed to provide a vehicle for instructors to address a topic in physical geography with which they are especially concerned; usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. Topics will vary with instructor. See departmental announcements.
Geography^Topics in Social Geography Topics in Social Geography This course is designed to provide a vehicle for instructors to address a topic in social geography with which they are especially concerned; usually more restricted than the subject matter of a regular lecture course. Topics will vary with instructor. See departmental announcements.
Geography^Cross-listed Topics in Human Geography Cross-listed Topics in Human Geography This course is designed to accommodate cross-listed courses offered through other departments, the content of which is applicable to geography majors. Content and unit values vary from course to course.
Geography^Undergraduate Seminars Undergraduate Seminars A reading and research seminar for undergraduate students. Topics will vary with instructor.
Geography^Field Methods for Physical Geography Field Methods for Physical Geography Field introduction to geomorphology, biogeography, and California landscapes. Students conduct field experiments and mapping exercises. Results of field projects are analyzed and presented as a technical report. Oral field reports are required for some trips.
Geography^Urban Field Study Urban Field Study Introduction to the metropolitan Bay Area: its history, economy, social makeup. Evolution of urban landscapes and spatial patterns. Social justice and conflict in the city. Business and industry location, real estate and housing, producing and consuming in the city. Regional characteristics of class, race, gender and politics.
Geography^Field Study of Buildings and Cities Field Study of Buildings and Cities Traveling on foot and by BART—and with on-site lectures and discussions about architecture, urban design, cultural landscapes, and spatial patterns in Berkeley, Oakland, San Francisco, and Pleasanton—students in this course will explore the historical geography of the American city since 1850. Enrollment limited to 25 students. No pre-requisites. Both undergraduate and graduate students are welcome.
Geography^Cartographic Representation Cartographic Representation Problems in the representation of quantitative and qualitative data on thematic maps.
Geography^Earth System Remote Sensing Earth System Remote Sensing This lecture-lab course is focused on Earth system remote sensing applications, including a survey of methods and an accompanying lab. This first part of the course will cover general principles, image acquisition and interpretation, and analytical approaches. The second part will cover global change remote sensing applications that will include terrestrial ecosystems, Earth sciences, the hydrosphere, and human land-use.
Geography^Geographic Information Analysis Geographic Information Analysis A spatial analytic approach to digital mapping and GIS. Given that recording the geolocation of scientific, business and social data is now routine, the question of what we can learn from the spatial aspect of data arises. This class looks at challenges in analyzing spatial data, particularly scale and spatial dependence. Various methods are considered such as hotspot detection, interpolation, and map overlay. The emphasis throughout is hands on and practical rather than theoretical.
Geography^Geographic Information Systems Geographic Information Systems This course introduces the student to the rapidly expanding field of Geographic Information Systems (GIS). It addresses both theory and application and provides the student with a dynamic analytical framework within which temporal and spatial data and information is gathered, integrated, interpreted, and manipulated. It emphasizes a conceptual appreciation of GIS and offers an opportunity to apply some of those concepts to contemporary geographical and planning issues.
Geography^Honors Course Honors Course Required for Honors in Geography. Students will write a thesis. One or two semesters, at the instructor's option; if two semesters, credit and grade to be awarded upon completion of the sequence.
Geography^Honors Course Honors Course Required for Honors in Geography. Students will write a thesis. One or two semesters, at the instructor's option; if two semesters, credit and grade to be awarded upon completion of the sequence.
Geography^Field Study in Geography Field Study in Geography Supervised experience in application of geography in off-campus organizations. Regular individual meetings with faculty sponsor and written reports required.
Geography^Contemporary Geographic Thought Contemporary Geographic Thought The class has several goals. One is to give students a sound basis upon which to judge arguments. A second is to help students see, think, and write geographically--that is, to interpret the making and meaning of our physical and human landscapes. A third goal is to introduce students to the tremendous range of geographical inquiry and what is probably the major strength of geography as a form of thought: to wit, making links across space, among peoples, and between humans and the earth. Sequence
Geography^Contemporary Geographic Thought Contemporary Geographic Thought The class has several goals. One is to give students a sound basis upon which to judge arguments. A second is to help students see, think, and write geographically--that is, to interpret the making and meaning of our physical and human landscapes. A third goal is to introduce students to the tremendous range of geographical inquiry and what is probably the major strength of geography as a form of thought: to wit, making links across space, among peoples, and between humans and the earth. Sequence
Geography^Nature and Culture: Social Theory, Social Practice, and the Environment Nature and Culture: Social Theory, Social Practice, and the Environment The relationship between societies and natural environments lies at the heart of geographical inquiry and has gained urgency as the rate and scale of human transformation of nature have grown, often outstripping our understanding of causes and effects. The physical side of environmental science has received most of the emphasis in university research, but the social basis of environmental change must be studied as well. Recent developments in social theory have much to offer environmental studies
Geography^Development Theories and Practices Development Theories and Practices This course examines how concepts and theories of "development" have been produced, maintained, used, and challenged in different regions of the world economy. It will offer a framework for analyzing how changing and contending models of development both reflect and shape social processes and practices.
Geography^Seminar in Comparative and International Development Seminar in Comparative and International Development This seminar is designed for students intending to do research on topics of comparative development, the organization of work, and access to resources in different regions of the world economy. Participants in the seminar will be expected to write a research proposal and to participate actively in reading and responding to each other's work.
Geography^Capital, Value, and Scale Capital, Value, and Scale This seminar focuses on major works in political economy and social theory concerning capitalism, human action, and space-time. We grapple with what "value" means in "Capital", paying particular attention to issues of historical specificity, abstract labor time, and the "value theory of labor." We spatialize the argument by a close reading of David Harvey, and we look at attempts to understand capital's relation to human action and other forms of value, in anthropology
Geography^Spatial Simulation Modeling Spatial Simulation Modeling Simulation is now a widely adopted approach to science. This class will examine what simulation models are, and why and how they are used. Models that focus on spatial processes (aggregation, segregation, diffusion, movement, growth) will be closely considered. A particular concern will be to explore how simulation models may help elucidate the relationships between processes and the spatial outcomes they produce.
Geography^Glaciology Glaciology A review of the mechanics of glacial systems, including formation of ice masses, glacial flow mechanisms, subglacial hydrology, temperature and heat transport, global flow, and response of ice sheets and glaciers. We will use this knowledge to examine glaciers as geomorphologic agents and as participants in climate change.
Geography^Complex Environmental Systems Complex Environmental Systems Applying a complex-systems approach to environmental problems can yield valuable insight into risk, potential drivers of change, likely outcomes of perturbation, and whether it is even possible to forecast or manage system behavior. This course explores complex-systems theory and applications in geography, ecology, and earth science. Case studies include climate change, coupled human-environmental systems, vegetation community change, river networks, forest fires, earthquakes, and peatlands.
Geography^Geomorphology of California Geomorphology of California Numerous tectonic and Earth surface processes act in concert to produce the physical landscapes of our planet. This course examines three major regions of California (the Sierra Nevada, the Basin and Range, and the Southern Coast Ranges) as specific case studies for demonstrating how landscapes can be understood using concepts from tectonics, geomorphology, and geography. Two four-day field trips and preparatory readings for them will illuminate the integrated action of tectonics, geologic structure
Geography^Spatiotemporal Data Analysis in the Climate Sciences Spatiotemporal Data Analysis in the Climate Sciences This graduate seminar teaches objective techniques for spatiotemporal data analysis focusing primarily on Empirical Orthogonal Function (EOF) analysis and its derivatives. The context will be climate data analysis, but the technique is readily translatable to other fields. The goal is to get the student sufficiently comfortable with the technique so they can use it in their research.
Geography^Seminar in Sociology of Forest and Wildland Resources Seminar in Sociology of Forest and Wildland Resources Individual projects and group discussions concerning social constraints to, and effects of, natural resource planning and management. Application of sociological theories to problems of managing wildland ecosystems. Students will examine topics of individual interest related to the management of wildland uses. Enrollment limited.
Geography^Topics in Cultural Geography Topics in Cultural Geography Research seminar on selected topics in cultural geography.
Geography^Topics in Economic Geography Topics in Economic Geography Research seminar on selected topics in economic geography.
Geography^Topics in Urban Geography Topics in Urban Geography Research seminar on selected topics in urban geography.
Geography^Topics in Political Geography Topics in Political Geography Research seminar on selected topics in political geography.
Geography^Topics in Climatology Topics in Climatology Research seminar on selected topics in climatology.
Geography^Topics in Biogeography Topics in Biogeography Research seminar on selected topics in biogeography.
Geography^Statistics and Multivariate Data Analysis for Research Statistics and Multivariate Data Analysis for Research An introduction to advanced statistical methods for research. Topics include hypothesis testing, distribution fitting, ANOVA and MANOVA, PCA, cluster analysis, ordination, discriminant analysis, regression, time series analyses, causality, and data mining techniques. Students will complete assignments that use real datasets and will gain feedback in working with their own datasets.
Geography^Advanced Field Study in Geography Advanced Field Study in Geography All day Saturday. Each additional unit requires four hours of field work per week. Extended field project required.
Geography^Geographic Information Systems: Applications in Geographical Research Geographic Information Systems: Applications in Geographical Research This course introduces graduate students to a range of applications of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in geographical research, and theoretical considerations of the meaning, strengths, and limitations of the methods. We first review, in general, how geographic variables can be represented in a database. This leads to an extended discussion of the application of GIS methods to a variety of problems in physical and human geography, using topographic data, census data, and other sources, manipulated
Geography^Geography Colloquium Geography Colloquium Invited lectures on current research and field work.
Geography^Directed Study for Graduate Students Directed Study for Graduate Students Special tutorial or seminar on selected topics not covered by available courses or seminars.
Geography^Individual Research Individual Research Individual research for graduate students in consultation with staff member.
Geography^Individual Research Individual Research Individual research for graduate students in consultation with staff member.
Geography^Communicating Ocean Science Communicating Ocean Science For graduate students interested in improving their ability to communicate their scientific knowledge by teaching ocean science in elementary schools or science centers/aquariums. The course will combine instruction in inquiry-based teaching methods and learning pedagogy with six weeks of supervised teaching experience in a local school classroom or the Lawrence Hall of Science with a partner. Thus, students will practice communicating scientific knowledge and receive mentoring on how to improve
Geography^Effective Scientific Communication Effective Scientific Communication This course will introduce methods of organizing and delivering oral presentations, initating and organizing manuscripts, and utilizing digital communication methods, such as web-based media. Students will develop effective communication techniques through in-class experience. This class will have an emphasis on the sciences but will be useful and open to graduate students of all disciplines.
Geography^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for comprehensive or language requirements in consultation with the field adviser.
Geography^Individual Study for Master's Students Individual Study for Master's Students Individual study for comprehensive or language requirements in consultation with the field adviser.
