English^Understanding Literature Understanding Literature Explores how major fiction, drama, and poetry, past and present, primarily English and American, clarify enduring human values and issues.
English^Understanding Literature Understanding Literature Studies the various critical ways of reading, understanding, and writing about fiction, poetry, and drama.
English^The Great Traditions in English Literature The Great Traditions in English Literature Major works of fiction, drama, and poetry from the Middle Ages to the twentieth century expressing enduring issues and values.
English^The Great Traditions in American Literature The Great Traditions in American Literature Major works of fiction, drama, and poetry from the colonial to the modern periods expressing enduring issues and values.
English^Basic Writing Skills Basic Writing Skills Intensive practice in writing sentences and paragraphs and instruction in grammar, usage, and punctuation. Designed for students with deficient preparation. This course may not be used to satisfy the basic minimum requirements for graduation in any baccalaureate degree program.
English^Writing Tutorial Writing Tutorial Tutorial instruction in composition and rhetoric for students currently enrolled in Engl. 4 or 15. This course may not be used to satisfy the basic minimum requirements for graduation in any baccalaureate degree program.
English^Creative Writing Common Time Creative Writing Common Time Required one hour a week meeting time; readings, professional development, advising, community-building.
English^Rhetoric and Composition Rhetoric and Composition Instruction and practice in writing expository prose that shows sensitivity to audience and purpose.
English^Rhetoric and Composition Rhetoric and Composition Instruction and practice in writing expository prose that shows sensitivity to audience and purpose.
English^Rhetoric and Composition Rhetoric and Composition Instruction and practice in writing expository prose that shows sensitivity to audience and purpose.
English^Honors Freshman Composition Honors Freshman Composition Writing practice for specially qualified and screened students. Students who have passed a special writing test will qualify for this course.
English^Honors Freshman Composition Honors Freshman Composition Writing practice for specially qualified and screened students. Students who have passed a special writing test will qualify for this course.
English^Honors Freshman Composition Honors Freshman Composition Writing practice for specially qualified and screened students. Students who have passed a special writing test will qualify for this course.
English^Introduction to Creative Writing Introduction to Creative Writing Practice and criticism in the reading, analysis and composition of fiction, nonfiction and poetry writing.
English^Introduction to Creative Writing Introduction to Creative Writing Practice and criticism in the reading, analysis and composition of fiction, nonfiction and poetry writing.
English^First-Year Seminar in English First-Year Seminar in English Critical approaches to the dimensions and directions in English/American literature and rhetoric.
English^Australian/New Zealand Cultural Perspectives Australian/New Zealand Cultural Perspectives Australian and New Zealand cultural and social perspectives, with emphasis on the historical development of intellectual, aesthetic, and humanistic values.
English^English Language Analysis English Language Analysis An examination of English sounds, words, and syntax using traditional, structural, and transformational grammar.
English^The Great Traditions in American Literature The Great Traditions in American Literature Major works of fiction, drama, and poetry from the colonial to the modern periods expressing enduring issues and values.
English^The Bible as Literature The Bible as Literature Study of the English Bible as a literary and cultural document.
English^American Popular Culture and Folklife American Popular Culture and Folklife Survey of popular culture, folklife, and ethnicity, synthesizing material from such areas as literature, media, entertainment, print, music, and film.
English^Newswriting Practicum Newswriting Practicum Practice in writing and editing articles for the campus newspaper.
English^The Possibilities of English The Possibilities of English This course familiarizes students with the range of professional possibilities offered by the English major.
English^Pennsylvania Literature Pennsylvania Literature An introduction to the literature that has been written by Pennsylvania authors from the colonial era through the present day.
English^The Holocaust in Film and Literature The Holocaust in Film and Literature Thematic, formal, and historical analysis of filmic and literary representation of the Holocaust.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare A selection of the major plays studied to determine the sources of their permanent appeal. Intended for non-majors.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare A selection of the major plays studied to determine the sources of their permanent appeal. Intended for non-majors.
English^Reading Popular Texts Reading Popular Texts Popular texts  and their social, political, and cultural significance in the contemporary world.
English^Introduction to Jewish American Literature Introduction to Jewish American Literature A historical and thematic survey of Jewish Literature of the United States.
English^Jewish American Literature Jewish American Literature A historical and thematic survey of Jewish Literature of the United States.
English^Modern American Literature to World War II Modern American Literature to World War II Cather, Eliot, Frost, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, Hurston, Wharton, Wright, and other writers representative of the years between the world wars.
English^American Comedy American Comedy Studies in American comedy and satire, including such writers as Mark Twain, Faulkner, Vonnegut, Ellison, O'Connor, Welty, and Heller.
English^Alternative Voices in American Literature Alternative Voices in American Literature United States writers from diverse backgrounds offering varying responses to issues such as race, class, gender, and ethnicity.
English^Alternative Voices in American Literature Alternative Voices in American Literature United States writers from diverse backgrounds offering varying responses to issues such as race, class, gender, and ethnicity.
English^The Graphic Novel The Graphic Novel The graphic novel as a literary and visual form .
English^Rhetoric and Civic Life I Rhetoric and Civic Life I Within a liberal arts framework and with attention to public discourse-- speaking, writing, online communication, and visual presentation--this course instructs students in the arts, practices, and principles of rhetoric.
English^Rhetoric and Civic Life II Rhetoric and Civic Life II This course builds rehtorical skills in oral, written, visual, and digital contexts and introduces deliberation and advocacy in civic and disciplinary spheres.
English^Black American Literature Black American Literature Fiction, poetry, and drama, including such writers as Baldwin, Douglass, Ellison, Morrison, and Wright.
English^Black American Literature Black American Literature Fiction, poetry, and drama, including such writers as Baldwin, Douglass, Ellison, Morrison, and Wright.
English^Black American Literature Black American Literature Fiction, poetry, and drama, including such writers as Baldwin, Douglass, Ellison, Morrison, and Wright.
English^Contemporary Literature Contemporary Literature Writers such as Baldwin, Beckett, Bellow, Ellison, Gordimer, Lessing, Lowell, Mailer, Naipaul, Pinter, Plath, Pynchon, Rushdie, and Walker.
English^Modern Irish Literature Modern Irish Literature Irish literature in the twentieth century and beyond; focus on the interplay of poltical, social, and cultural, forces on literature.
English^Exploring the Literature of Food: Current Trends in American Food Writing  and Environmentalism Exploring the Literature of Food: Current Trends in American Food Writing  and Environmentalism Examines historical and contemporary American food literature.
English^Literature and the Natural World Literature and the Natural World Literary representations of the natural world, focusing on English language traditions.
English^Adventure Literature: Exploring the Chesapeake Bay Adventure Literature: Exploring the Chesapeake Bay Examines the interconnection of culture and nature in the Chesapeake Bay region through the literature of the region.
English^Adventure Literature: Exploring Cape Cod Adventure Literature: Exploring Cape Cod Examines the interconnection of culture and nature on Cape Cod through considerations of texts in various literary genres that have contributed to development of a distinctive regional identity and culture.
English^The Beach: Exploring the Literature of the Atlantic Shore The Beach: Exploring the Literature of the Atlantic Shore Examines the interconnection of culture and nature in coastal areas of the Atlantic seaboard.
English^Adventure Literature: Exploring the Literature of American Wilderness Adventure Literature: Exploring the Literature of American Wilderness Examines the history and cultural impact of wilderness in America.
English^Literature and Empire Literature and Empire Literature written in English from countries that were once part of European empires, e.g., India, Canada, South Africa, and others.
English^Literature and Empire Literature and Empire Literature written in English from countries that were once part of European empires, e.g., India, Canada, South Africa, and others.
English^The Short Story The Short Story Lectures, discussion, readings in translation, with primary emphasis on major writers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
English^The Short Story The Short Story Lectures, discussion, readings in translation, with primary emphasis on major writers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
English^World Novel World Novel Development of the modern novel in the last century ; lectures, discussions, readings in translation.
English^Modern Drama Modern Drama Playwrights who set the world's stage for twentieth-century drama; issues that continue to shape the contemporary theatrical world.
English^Science Fiction Science Fiction Science fiction as the literature of technological innovation and social change--its development, themes, and problems.
English^The Literature of Fantasy The Literature of Fantasy Literature of fantasy from early forms through a variety of contemporary traditions.
English^Women Writers Women Writers Short stories, novels, poetry, drama, and essays by English, American, and other English-speaking women writers.
English^Women Writers Women Writers Short stories, novels, poetry, drama, and essays by English, American, and other English-speaking women writers.
English^Introduction to American Folklore Introduction to American Folklore A basic introduction to verbal and nonverbal folklore stressing the basic procedures of collection, classification, and analysis.
English^The Selfie The Selfie This course interactively examines the selfie and self-portraiture, identity construction, authorship, branding, celebrity, data-mining, dating, and sexuality within digital culture.
English^Foreign Study--English Foreign Study--English Studies in English language and/or literature.
English^Introduction to Critical Reading Introduction to Critical Reading Responses to a variety of literary texts written in English that evoke different approaches.
English^Introduction to Critical Reading Introduction to Critical Reading Responses to a variety of literary texts written in English that evoke different approaches.
English^Introduction to Critical Reading Introduction to Critical Reading Responses to a variety of literary texts written in English that evoke different approaches.
English^What is Literature What is Literature Acquaints students with theory and practice relevant to studies of narrative, lyric poetry, and drama.
English^What is Literature What is Literature Acquaints students with theory and practice relevant to studies of narrative, lyric poetry, and drama.
English^Effective Writing: Writing in the Social Sciences Effective Writing: Writing in the Social Sciences Instruction in writing persuasive arguments about significant issues in the social sciences.
English^Effective Writing: Writing in the Humanities Effective Writing: Writing in the Humanities Instruction in writing persuasive arguments about significant issues in the humanities.
English^Effective Writing: Technical Writing Effective Writing: Technical Writing Writing for students in scientific and technical disciplines.
English^Effective Writing: Business Writing Effective Writing: Business Writing Writing reports and other common forms of business communication.
English^Writing in the Humanities: Adult Literacy Writing in the Humanities: Adult Literacy Instruction in writing persuasive arguments about significant issues in the humanities.
English^Writing in the Humanities: Adult Literacy Writing in the Humanities: Adult Literacy Instruction in writing persuasive arguments about significant issues in the humanities.
English^Writing in the Humanities: Adult Literacy Writing in the Humanities: Adult Literacy Instruction in writing persuasive arguments about significant issues in the humanities.
English^Journal or Magazine Practicum Journal or Magazine Practicum A practicum in the editing and publishing of a magazine or journal.
English^The Process of Writing The Process of Writing Examination of the relation between fiction and nonfiction; practice in principles common to all writing.
English^Introduction to Writing Studies Introduction to Writing Studies This course introduces students to the most salient issues and theories in writing studies. Students explore contemporary theories and issues about writing in order to understand writing as a skill and a complex object of study in various professional contexts.
English^Introduction to Writing Studies Introduction to Writing Studies This course introduces students to the most salient issues and theories in writing studies. Students explore contemporary theories and issues about writing in order to understand writing as a skill and a complex object of study in various professional contexts.
English^Introduction to Fiction Writing Introduction to Fiction Writing Written exercises and short readings in the elements of fiction writing; the writing of at least one short story.
English^Introduction to Poetry Writing Introduction to Poetry Writing Written exercises in the components and techniques of poetry writing in conjunction with selected readings.
English^Introduction to Creative Nonfiction Writing Introduction to Creative Nonfiction Writing Introduces lyric and narrative forms in memoir writing and the personal essay.
English^Introduction to Article Writing Introduction to Article Writing Written exercises in, and a study of, the principles of article writing; practice in the writing of specific articles.
English^British Literature to 1798 British Literature to 1798 Introduction to literary history and analysis; Beowulf and writers such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Donne, Milton, Swift, Pope, and Fielding.
English^British Literature to 1798 British Literature to 1798 Introduction to literary history and analysis. Beowulf and writers such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Donne, Milton, Swift, Pope, and Fielding.
English^British Literature from 1798 British Literature from 1798 Introduction to literary history and analysis; writers such as Austen, Wordsworth, Keats, Browning, Dickens, The Brontes, Yeats, Joyce, and Woolf.
English^British Literature from 1798 British Literature from 1798 Introduction to literary history and analysis. Writers such as Austen, Wordsworth, Keats, Browning, Dickens, the Brontes, Yeats, Joyce, and Woolf.
English^Sexuality and Modern Visual Culture Sexuality and Modern Visual Culture An examination of the visual expression of gender and sexual identities in English-speaking cultures since the late nineteenth century.
English^Latina  and Latino Border Theories Latina  and Latino Border Theories English 226 will constitute a wide-ranging examination of contemporary texts  central to the construction of contemporary Latino/a culture.
English^Introduction to Culture and Sexuality Introduction to Culture and Sexuality A course addressing the relationships between sexuality, literature, and culture.
English^Introduction to Disability Studies in the Humanities Introduction to Disability Studies in the Humanities Provides a humanities-based interdisciplinary introduction to Disability Studies.
English^Digital Studies Digital Studies An introduction to concepts, methods, and resources for the computer-assisted study of language and textual culture, including literature, in the English language.
English^American Literature to 1865 American Literature to 1865 Introduction to literary history and analysis; writers such as Bradstreet, Franklin, Emerson, Hawthorne, Douglass, Thoreau, Fuller, Melville, Whitman, and Dickinson.
English^American Literature to 1865 American Literature to 1865 Introduction to literary history and analysis. Writers such as Bradstreet, Franklin, Emerson, Hawthorne, Douglass, Thoreau, Fuller, Melville, Whitman, and Dickinson.
English^American Literature from 1865 American Literature from 1865 Introduction to literary history and analysis; writers such as Mark Twain, James, Cather, Frost, O'Neill, Faulkner, Hemingway, Hughes, and Morrison.
English^American Literature from 1865 American Literature from 1865 Introduction to literary history and analysis. Writers such as Mark Twain, James, Cather, Frost, O'Neill, Faulkner, Hemingway, Hughes, and Morrison.
English^Chemistry and Literature Chemistry and Literature Exploration of key concepts of chemistry, the reciprocal influence of chemistry and literature through history, and the relationship of science to society, culture, and values.
English^Sports, Ethics, and Literature Sports, Ethics, and Literature Exploration of social and ethical issues in sports through a variety of literary texts.
English^From Folk Shouts and Songs to Hip Hop Poetry From Folk Shouts and Songs to Hip Hop Poetry The origins, forms, and function of the oral folk tradition of African Americans.
English^Exploring Literary Traditions Exploring Literary Traditions The examination of specific literary traditions in English-language texts and an inquiry into the question of tradition itself.
English^Exploring Literary Traditions Exploring Literary Traditions The examination of specific literary traditions in English-language texts and an inquiry into the question of tradition itself.
English^Introduction to Lesbian and Gay Studies Introduction to Lesbian and Gay Studies An introduction to the study of homosexual identities across a wide range of disciplines and methodologies.
English^Peer Tutoring in Writing Peer Tutoring in Writing Introduction to skills and attitudes required for successful peer tutoring in writing. Provides internship experience in a writing center.
English^Exploring Literary Forms Exploring Literary Forms The examination of specific genres in English-language texts and an inquiry into the question of genre itself.
English^Reading Fiction Reading Fiction Elements of fiction including plot, character, viewpoint, and fictional genres in British, American, and other English-language traditions.
English^Reading Poetry Reading Poetry Elements of poetry including meter, rhyme, image, diction, and poetic forms in British, American, and other English-language traditions.
English^Reading Nonfiction Reading Nonfiction Forms of nonfictional prose such as autobiography, biography, essay, letter, memoir, oration, travelogue in British, American, and other English-language traditions.
English^Reading Nonfiction Reading Nonfiction Forms of nonfictional prose such as autobiography, biography, essay, letter, memoir, oration, travelogue in British, American, and other English-language traditions.
English^Reading Drama Reading Drama Elements of drama including plot, character, dialogue, staging, and dramatic forms in British, American, and other English-language traditions.
English^Television Script Writing Television Script Writing An introduction to the writing of scripts for television production.
English^Assessing Student Writing Assessment Assessing Student Writing Assessment Student will be collecting information from the students she is tutoring and write up her observations for best practices for improving academic writing.
English^Austrian Literature in Translation Austrian Literature in Translation The course will study five literary works by Austrian writers, including quizzes and two travel-related essays.
English^Eating Your Ecology: Current Trends in Food Writing and Environmentalism Eating Your Ecology: Current Trends in Food Writing and Environmentalism This course aims to bring you closer to your food, intellectually and literally.
English^African American Read-in Service Learning (Simpson) African American Read-in Service Learning (Simpson) The African American Read-In  Service Learning Experience enables students to study African American literature, culture, history and the arts in connection with an annual public, two-day even held at Penn State Altoona. Students will have the opportunity to study materials that relate to this year's Read-In's particular theme and then develop this knowledge, according to their inclinations and overall academic objectives, into various contributions to the event-in consultation and working closely with the instructor as well as other faculty involved in the Read-In project. Students may prepare a lecture-demonstration on a subject, develop the material into a performance or a multi-media presentation, assemble a bibliography on the year's theme, create a feature celebrating a particular author, and so on.
English^Sports/Ethics/Literature Sports/Ethics/Literature This course explores what sports can tell us about the cultures that promote them.
English^Digital Literary Studies Digital Literary Studies Digital Literary Studies introduces students to a variety computational approaches to literary criticism, as well as critical approaches to computation.
English^Oslo: Idea of the Castle Oslo: Idea of the Castle Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject which may be topical or of special interest.
English^Literacy Corps Service Literacy Corps Service Earn literacy volunteer certification by completing 40 hours of service as a literacy volunteer tutor to adults.
English^Honors Course in English Honors Course in English Reading, group discussions, and oral and written reports on various specific authors and literary works.
English^Honors Seminar in English: Literature Before 1800 Honors Seminar in English: Literature Before 1800 Reading, group discussions, and oral and written reports on various specific authors and literary works.
English^Honors Seminar in English: Literature After 1800 Honors Seminar in English: Literature After 1800 Reading, group discussions, and oral and written reports on various specific authors and literary works.
English^Honors Seminar in English: American Literature & Culture Honors Seminar in English: American Literature & Culture Reading, group discussions, and oral and written reports on various specific authors and literary works.
English^Honors Seminar in English: Creative Writing Honors Seminar in English: Creative Writing Reading, group discussions, and oral and written reports on various specific authors and literary works.
English^Honors Thesis in English Honors Thesis in English Research paper or creative project on a topic approved by the Departmental Honors Committee.
English^The Canon and Its Critics The Canon and Its Critics History and formation of literary canons, and challenges to canon ideology by writers and critics, through readings in English and American literature.
English^Globality and Literature Globality and Literature Examines relationships between literature and culture, through the study of major texts in English by writers of various cultures.
English^Foreign Study--English Foreign Study--English Advanced studies in English language and/or literature.
English^Authors, Texts, Contexts Authors, Texts, Contexts Styles, cultural milieus, critical perspectives toward particular English- language authors and/or movements they represent, and the idea of authorship.
English^Studies in Genre Studies in Genre English-language texts exemplifying particular genres, with attention to critical theories, historical development, rhetorical strategies, and social, cultural, and aesthetic values.
English^Creative Writing Theory Creative Writing Theory Theories of art and creativity which inform the making of literary works.
English^Literature and Society Literature and Society Texts confronting social, political, technological, or other issues in the English-speaking world.
English^Literature and Culture Literature and Culture Historical, theoretical, and practical issues within cultural studies in relation to English-speaking texts.
English^Mapping Identity, Difference, and Place Mapping Identity, Difference, and Place Ethnicity, gender, class, race with reference to theoretical inquiry into identity, difference, and place in English-language literatures.
English^Taking Shakespeare From Page to Stage Taking Shakespeare From Page to Stage Students experience a Shakespeare play as a text to be explicated and as a script to be performed.
English^History of the English Language History of the English Language Historical and structural study of developments in English sounds, forms, inflections, syntax, derivations, and meanings.
English^Composition Theory and Practice for Teachers Composition Theory and Practice for Teachers An overview of the theory and practice of writing for teachers, with emphasis on the writing process.
English^Advanced Fiction Writing Advanced Fiction Writing Advanced study of the techniques of fiction writing; regular practice in writing the short story; group discussion of student work.
English^Advanced Fiction Writing Advanced Fiction Writing Advanced study of the techniques of fiction writing; regular practice in writing the short story; group discussion of student work.
English^Advanced Poetry Writing Advanced Poetry Writing Advanced study of the techniques of poetic composition; regular practice in writing poetry; group discussion of student work.
English^Advanced Poetry Writing Advanced Poetry Writing Advanced study of the techniques of poetic composition; regular practice in writing poetry; group discussion of student work.
English^Biographical Writing Biographical Writing Writing of biography and autobiography, character sketches, "profiles," and literary portraits; analysis and interpretations of source materials.
English^Advanced Nonfiction Writing Advanced Nonfiction Writing Advanced study of the principles of nonfiction; substantial practice in writing and submitting magazine articles for publication.
English^Advanced Nonfiction Writing Advanced Nonfiction Writing Advanced study of the principles of nonfiction; substantial practice in writing and submitting magazine articles for publication.
English^Science Writing Science Writing Prepares scientists and writers to gather, interpret, and present scientific information to the layman with clarity and accuracy.
English^The Editorial Process The Editorial Process The process of editing from typescript through final proof.
English^Advanced Technical Writing and Editing Advanced Technical Writing and Editing Preparing and editing professional papers for subject specialists and for others interested in careers as writers or editors.
English^Advanced Business Writing Advanced Business Writing Preparing and editing reports and presentations common to business, industry, and government.
English^Writing for the Web Writing for the Web Analysis and composition of informative, persuasive, and "creative" Web texts, based on rhetorical principles; no prior Web writing experience required.
English^Advanced Expository Writing Advanced Expository Writing Develops skill in writing expository essays, with particular attention to style. Intended for liberal arts majors.
English^Fiction Workshop Fiction Workshop Practice and criticism in the composition of the short story and the novel.
English^Poetry Writing Workshop Poetry Writing Workshop Extensive practice in writing poetry; consideration of contemporary poetic forms; selected readings.
English^Creative Writing and the Natural World Creative Writing and the Natural World Creative writing workshop focused on the environment and related issues.
English^Nonfiction Workshop Nonfiction Workshop Extensive writing of nonfiction for publication; an introduction to the principles of writing the nonfiction book.
English^Chicana and Chicano Cultural Production: Literature, Film, Music Chicana and Chicano Cultural Production: Literature, Film, Music An in-depth study of Chicana/Chicano literature, film, and music from the inception of the Chicano Movement  to the present.
English^Topics in Jewish American Literature Topics in Jewish American Literature An in-depth examination of important themes, writers, and/or historical developments in Jewish Literature of the United States.
English^Asian American Literatures Asian American Literatures A seminar on the literatures and cultures of Asian America, with attention to forms of geographic, historical, and ethnic diversity.
English^New Media and Literature New Media and Literature New media literary genres; critical discussion of creative works in digital media.
English^The American Renaissance The American Renaissance Studies in the works and the interrelationships of writers such as Emerson, Hawthorne, Poe, Thoreau, Whitman, Melville, and Dickinson.
English^Black American Writers Black American Writers A particular genre or historical period in the development of Black American literature.
English^The American Novel to 1900 The American Novel to 1900 Such writers as Hawthorne, Melville, Stowe, Mark Twain, James, Crane, Chopin, and others.
English^The American Novel: 1900-1945 The American Novel: 1900-1945 Such writers as Wharton, Dreiser, Cather, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, Hemingway, Hurston, Wright, and others.
English^Topics in American Literature Topics in American Literature Focused study of a particular genre, theme, or problem in American literature.
English^The American Short Story The American Short Story Development of the short story as a recognized art form, with emphasis on major writers.
English^American Fiction Since 1945 American Fiction Since 1945 Representative fiction by such writers as Barth, Bellow, Ellison, Heller, Mailer, Morrison, Nabokov, Oates, O'Connor, Pynchon, Updike, Walker.
English^The Poet in America The Poet in America American poets such as Bradstreet, Taylor, Poe, Emerson, Whitman, Dickinson, Frost, Eliot, Stevens, Hughes, Brooks, Moore, Williams, Plath, Rich, Lowell.
English^American Drama American Drama Development from the colonial period to playwrights such as O'Neill, Wilder, Hellman, Miller, Williams, Albee, Shepard, Norman, Wilson, and others.
English^American Nonfiction Prose American Nonfiction Prose Major prose writers such as Franklin, Emerson, Thoreau, Fuller, Henry Adams, Mailer, Baldwin, McCarthy, Dillard, Didion, Angelou, and others.
English^Studies in Shakespeare Studies in Shakespeare Intensive study of a single genre, topic, or critical approach to selected plays.
English^Chaucer Chaucer The principal narrative poems and their background.
English^Medieval English Literature Medieval English Literature Study of major works and genres of medieval English literature, exclusive of Chaucer.
English^The English Renaissance The English Renaissance Such writers as More, Sidney, Spenser, Shakespeare, Donne, Jonson, Bacon, and Marvell.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare Selected tragedies, comedies, and histories.
English^Shakespeare's Contemporaries Shakespeare's Contemporaries Selected plays by Shakespeare's major predecessors and contemporaries: Kyd, Marlowe, Jonson, Webster, Marston, Middleton, and others.
English^Milton Milton Analysis of principal poems and their background.
English^The Restoration and the Eighteenth Century The Restoration and the Eighteenth Century The neoclassical age . Such writers as Dryden, Congreve, Swift, Pope, Fielding, Goldsmith, Sheridan, Boswell, Johnson.
English^The English Novel to Jane Austen The English Novel to Jane Austen Novelists such as Defoe, Richardson, Fielding, Smollett, Sterne, and Austen.
English^The Romantics The Romantics Poets such as Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats, Shelley, and Byron; also prose by writers such as Hazlitt, Lamb, and DeQuincey.
English^Literary Modernism in English Literary Modernism in English Survey of literary modernism in English and English translation in a variety of genres, including poetry, fiction, and drama.
English^Literary Modernism in English Literary Modernism in English Survey of literary modernism in English and English translation in a variety of genres, including poetry, fiction, and drama.
English^The Victorians The Victorians Poets such as Tennyson, Browning, Arnold, and Hopkins; also prose by writers such as Carlyle, Mill, Ruskin, and Arnold.
English^Victorian Novel Victorian Novel Novelists such as the Brontes, Thackeray, Dickens, George Eliot, Meredith, and Hardy.
English^Modern British and Irish Drama Modern British and Irish Drama From Wilde and Shaw to the present season.
English^Topics in British Literature Topics in British Literature Focused study of a particular genre, theme, or problem in British literature.
English^British Fiction, 1900-1945 British Fiction, 1900-1945 Major writers such as Conrad, Lawrence, Mansfield, Forster, Joyce, Woolf, Waugh, Greene, Bowen, Beckett, and others.
English^British Fiction Since 1945 British Fiction Since 1945 Readings in British fiction since World War II.
English^Twentieth-Century Poetry Twentieth-Century Poetry Poets writing in English such as Yeats, Pound, Eliot, Frost, Auden, Stevens, Plath, Bishop, Brooks, H.D., and others.
English^The Vernacular Roots of African American Literature The Vernacular Roots of African American Literature The relationship between oral tradition and literary texts and the double consciousness of African American voice in "print."
English^Reading Black, Reading Feminist Reading Black, Reading Feminist Female identity and its construction in textual representations of gender, class, color, and cultural difference in English-language literatures.
English^African American Autobiography African American Autobiography The African American literary quest for identity and its adaptation to Euro-American culture and autobiographies.
English^African American Novel I African American Novel I Thematic, structural, and stylistic characteristics of the African American novel from residually oral forms to satiric realism.
English^African American Novel II African American Novel II Thematic, stylistic, and structural characteristics of the African American novel from naturalism to modernism and postmodernism.
English^African American Poetry African American Poetry African American poetry within the contexts of the black oral tradition and transformed European literary tradition.
English^Slavery and the Literary Imagination Slavery and the Literary Imagination The impact of slavery on the petitions, poetry, slave narratives, autobiographies, and novels of African Americans.
English^Rhetorical Theory and Practice Rhetorical Theory and Practice Application of certain rhetorical principles to problems in composition. Writing exercise. Designed as preparation for the teaching of composition.
English^Rhetorical Traditions Rhetorical Traditions Introduces major traditions of rhetorical inquiry and their relevance for English studies.
English^Current Theories of Writing and Reading Current Theories of Writing and Reading Investigates models of textual production and reception current within English studies.
English^Rhetorical Approaches to Discourse Rhetorical Approaches to Discourse Practices the criticism of written texts from selected rhetorical perspectives.
English^Issues in Rhetoric and Composition Issues in Rhetoric and Composition Examines selected topics in the field of rhetoric and composition.
English^Teaching Children's Literature Teaching Children's Literature Teaching Children's Literature in light of recent literary pedagogy, the history of childhood, and critical approaches to Children's Literature.
English^Business or Technical Writing Practicum Business or Technical Writing Practicum Practical experience applying business or technical writing principles, working with advanced business, science, or engineering students on classroom projects.
English^Communication Design for Writers Communication Design for Writers This course explores visual design, non-verbal communication, and software packages used in professional settings to most effectively present written communications.
English^Literary Theory:  Historical Perspectives Literary Theory:  Historical Perspectives Selected topics in the history of literary criticism and theory within the English-language tradition.
English^Contemporary Literary Theory and Practice Contemporary Literary Theory and Practice Contemporary literary theories and their implication for critical practice as applied to British, American, and other English-language literary works.
English^Contemporary Literary and Cultural Theory Contemporary Literary and Cultural Theory Contemporary literary and cultural theories and their implication for critical practice as applies to a variety of texts, e.g. literary, linguistic, visual, multimedia, and/or popular.
English^Problems in Critical Theory and Practice Problems in Critical Theory and Practice Intensive study of one or more recent theoretical approaches as applied to British, American, and other English-language literary works.
English^James Joyce James Joyce Analysis of principal works and their background.
English^Australian and New Zealand Literature and Culture Australian and New Zealand Literature and Culture Questions of nationality, identity, gender, race, class, colonialism, and postcolonialism in these literatures.
English^The World Novel in English The World Novel in English Studies in the novel, written in English, by writers outside of the United States and Great Britain.
English^Senior Seminar Senior Seminar Issues, themes, periods, critical theories, etc., that invite students to use prior English studies, limited to seniors majoring in English.
English^Modern Continental Drama Modern Continental Drama From Ibsen to the drama of today: Strindberg, Chekhov, Hauptmann, Pirandello, Ionesco, Beckett, Genet, and others.
English^British Women Writers British Women Writers A study of selected British women writers.
English^Women Writers and Their Worlds Women Writers and Their Worlds American and British literature written from the perspective of women.
English^The Capstone Course in Professional Writing The Capstone Course in Professional Writing This culminating course for Professional Writing majors concentrates on reflective analyses, design, and presentation of documents in the development of professional portfolios.
English^American Women Writers American Women Writers A study of selected American women writers.
English^The Folktale in American Literature The Folktale in American Literature A survey of the literary uses of the folktale and legendary materials, with particular concentration on the literature of America.
English^Senior Thesis in English Senior Thesis in English Senior English  majors write a thesis arranged with in-charge person and submit it to a faculty committee for appraisal.
English^Senior Thesis in English Senior Thesis in English Senior English  majors write a thesis arranged with in-charge person and submit it to a faculty committee for appraisal.
English^Business and Technical Writing Practicum Business and Technical Writing Practicum Student will perform writing and editing tasks in support of the Academic and Career Planning Center. Research and correspondence required.
English^Major African American Authors Major African American Authors Intensively focuses on authors whose work in fiction, poetry, drama, and/or autobiography has contributed to African American literary tradition.
English^African American Read-in Service Learning (Simpson) African American Read-in Service Learning (Simpson) The African American Read-In  Service Learning Experience enables students to study African American literature, culture, history and the arts in connection with an annual public, two-day even held at Penn State Altoona. Students will have the opportunity to study materials that relate to this year's Read-In's particular theme and then develop this knowledge, according to their inclinations and overall academic objectives, into various contributions to the event-in consultation and working closely with the instructor as well as other faculty involved in the Read-In project. Students may prepare a lecture-demonstration on a subject, develop the material into a performance or a multi-media presentation, assemble a bibliography on the year's theme, create a feature celebrating a particular author, and so on.
English^Masterpieces of Brazilian Literature in Translation (class taught in       English) Masterpieces of Brazilian Literature in Translation (class taught in       English) This course explores the work of some of the most important writers in Brazilian Literature and Literary Movements in Brazil.
Economics^Principles of Economics Principles of Economics Analysis of the American economy, emphasizing the nature and interrelationships of such groups as consumers, business, governments, labor, and financial institutions. Students who have passed ECON 002 or 004 or are registered in the College of Business Administration may not schedule this course.
Economics^First-Year Seminar in Economics First-Year Seminar in Economics Experiments in microeconomic principles.
Economics^Introductory Microeconomic Analysis and Policy Introductory Microeconomic Analysis and Policy Methods of economic analysis and their use; price determination; theory of the firm; distribution.
Economics^Introductory Microeconomic Analysis and Policy Introductory Microeconomic Analysis and Policy Methods of economic analysis and their use; price determination; theory of the firm; distribution.
Economics^Introductory Microeconomic Analysis and Policy Introductory Microeconomic Analysis and Policy Methods of economic analysis and their use; price determination; theory of the firm; distribution.
Economics^Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy National income measurement; aggregate economic models; money and income; policy problems.
Economics^Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Introductory Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy National income measurement; aggregate economic models; money and income; policy problems.
Economics^Statistical Foundations for Econometrics Statistical Foundations for Econometrics Basic statistical concepts used in economics. Topics include probability distributions, expectations, estimation, hypothesis testing, correlation, and simple regression. Students who have completed ECON 306 may not schedule this course.
Economics^Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis Allocation of resources and distribution of income within various market structures, with emphasis on analytical tools.
Economics^Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis (Honors) Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis (Honors) Allocation of resources and distribution of income within various market structures, with emphasis on analytical tools.
Economics^Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis Analysis of forces that determine the level of aggregate economic activity.
Economics^Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis (Honors) Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis (Honors) Analysis of forces that determine the level of aggregate economic activity.
Economics^Introduction to Econometrics Introduction to Econometrics The implementation of statistical techniques to analyze data and address economic questions. Econometric results are produced and assessed.
Economics^Introduction to Econometrics Introduction to Econometrics The implementation of statistical techniques to analyze data and address economic questions. Econometric results are produced and assessed.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics Economic analysis of employment, earnings, and the labor market; labor relations; related government policies.
Economics^Public Finance Public Finance Contemporary fiscal institutions in the United States; public expenditures; public revenues; incidence of major tax types; intergovernmental fiscal relations; public credit.
Economics^International Economics International Economics Why nations trade, barriers to trade, balance of payments adjustment and exchange rate determination, eurocurrency markets, and trade-related institutions.
Economics^Industrial Organization Industrial Organization Industrial concentration, size, and efficiency of business firms, market structure and performance, competitive behavior, public policy and antitrust issues.
Economics^Money and Banking Money and Banking Money, credit, commercial and central banking, financial intermediaries, treasury operations, monetary theory and policy, and foreign exchange. Students who have already taken Econ. 451 may not schedule this course.
Economics^Honors Seminar in Economics Honors Seminar in Economics Readings, discussion, and oral and written reports on selected topics in economics.
Economics^History of Economic Thought History of Economic Thought Survey of economic ideas from Greco-Roman times to the present.
Economics^Decision Making and Strategy in Economics Decision Making and Strategy in Economics Development and application of the tools for decision making under uncertainty and for game theoretic analysis of economic problems.
Economics^The Economics of Arts and Entertainment The Economics of Arts and Entertainment Supply and demand of creative goods and services; industry structures; role of information; policy issues.
Economics^Current Economic Issues Current Economic Issues An analytical survey of significant problems of current economic policy and the application of economic analysis to important social issues.
Economics^The Economics of Social Conflict The Economics of Social Conflict Economic theory of the resolution of social conflicts: social choice theory, voting, noncooperative games, voluntary trade, and allocation by force.
Economics^The Economics of Social Conflict The Economics of Social Conflict Economic theory of the resolution of social conflicts: social choice theory, voting, noncooperative games, voluntary trade, and allocation by force.
Economics^Political Economy Political Economy Applications of the tools of game theory to analyze topics in collective decision making.
Economics^Political Economy Political Economy Applications of the tools of game theory to analyze topics in collective decision making.
Economics^Intellectual Property Intellectual Property A comparative and cost-benefit analysis of intellectual property that examines patents, copyrights, governmental supported research, and prizes.
Economics^Intellectual Property Intellectual Property A comparative and cost-benefit analysis of intellectual property that examines patents, copyrights, government supported research, and prizes.
Economics^Economics of Terrorism Economics of Terrorism Terrorism throughout history; economic causes, costs, sources, and consequences.
Economics^Economics of Terrorism Economics of Terrorism Terrorism throughout history; economic causes, costs, sources, and consequences.
Economics^Economics of Labor Markets Economics of Labor Markets Economic analysis of the employment relationship from the microeconomic perspective, with emphasis on current labor-market problems and public policy issues.
Economics^Behavioral Economics Behavioral Economics Topics in behavioral economics; selected games; evolutionary models of social behavior, herding, overconfidence.
Economics^Behavioral Economics Behavioral Economics Topics in behavioral economics; selected games; evolutionary models of social behavior; culture and social behavior; herding; overconfidence.
Economics^Labor Economics and Labor Markets: Theory, Evidence, and Policy Labor Economics and Labor Markets: Theory, Evidence, and Policy Advanced topics in labor economics: theory, empirical evidence, and policy.
Economics^Economic Growth and the Challenges of World Poverty Economic Growth and the Challenges of World Poverty Challenges imposed by poverty; growth; growth rates; microfinance; foreign aid.
Economics^Economic Growth and the Challenge of World Poverty Economic Growth and the Challenge of World Poverty Economic prosperity in historical perspective; recent successes ; ongoing challenges .
Economics^The Economic Way of Looking at Life The Economic Way of Looking at Life Economics/life according to Gary Becker: criminal behavior; economics of the family , policy issues.
Economics^The Economics of Global Climate Change The Economics of Global Climate Change Evidence on climate change; economic models of the environment and market failure; cost-benefit analysis of policy options; carbon markets.
Economics^The Economics of Global Climate Change The Economics of Global Climate Change Evidence on climate change; economic models of the environment and market failure; cost-benefit analysis of policy options; carbon markets.
Economics^The Economics of Uncertainty The Economics of Uncertainty Uncertainty and Risk as related to finance, insurance, health, labor, industrial organization, and macroeconomics.
Economics^The Economics of Uncertainty The Economics of Uncertainty Uncertainty is examined in contracts, with an emphasis on limited liability. Asymmetric information and economic puzzles are also considered.
Economics^Analysis of Economic Data Analysis of Economic Data Economic analysis of data: sources, variable definitions, miscodings, missing observations, censoring and truncation, applications.
Economics^Applying Monetary Theory and Monetary History Applying Monetary Theory and Monetary History Monetary history is examined. Special attention is paid to commodity-based systems, private money, and government monopolies on currency.
Economics^Applying Monetary Theory to Monetary History Applying Monetary Theory to Monetary History Monetary history is examined. Special attention is paid to commodity-based systems, private money, and government monopolies on currency.
Economics^Income Distribution Income Distribution Inequality and poverty in the United States, measurement problems, determinants of inequality, arguments for and against equality, impact of redistributive policies.
Economics^Economics of Public Expenditures Economics of Public Expenditures Analytic and policy aspects of public expenditure decisions; applications from areas of contemporary public interest.
Economics^Economics of Energy and Energy Security Economics of Energy and Energy Security Energy economics studies topics related to the supply, energy markets, and environmental impacts of energy use.
Economics^Environmental Economics Environmental Economics Environmental pollution, the market economy, and optimal resource allocation; alternative control procedures; levels of environmental protection and public policy.
Economics^Public Finance and Fiscal Policy Public Finance and Fiscal Policy Analysis of public revenue and expenditure structure primarily at the federal level; federalism; fiscal policy and public debt.
Economics^Regional Economic Analysis Regional Economic Analysis Analysis of personal and industrial location decisions, regional economic growth, migration patterns, and regional policy; emphasis on tools and techniques.
Economics^Urban Economics Urban Economics Theories and methods for economic analysis of such urban problems as housing, segregation, government services, and transportation.
Economics^Advanced International Trade Theory and Policy Advanced International Trade Theory and Policy Causes/consequences of trade; effects of tariffs and quotas; strategic trade policy; political economy of trade restrictions and other topics.
Economics^International Finance and Open Economy Macroeconomics International Finance and Open Economy Macroeconomics Trade balance movements, exchange rate determination; monetary and fiscal policies in open economies; international policy coordination; the world monetary system.
Economics^Economics of Discrimination Economics of Discrimination Analysis of the economic characteristics of women and minorities; with examination of race and sex discrimination and related government policies.
Economics^Economics of Discrimination Economics of Discrimination Analysis of the economic characteristics of women and minorities, with examination of race and sex discrimination and related government policies.
Economics^Multinationals and the Globalization of Production Multinationals and the Globalization of Production Globalization entails many dimensions: trade, migration, FDI, offshoring, cross-border licensing of technologies.
Economics^Multinationals and the Globalization of Production Multinationals and the Globalization of Production This course will focus on trade, multinationals and offshoring, and explore their implications for the U.S. and developing countries.
Economics^Winners and Losers from Globalization Winners and Losers from Globalization Globalization, US, International, Trade, Finance, Growth, Labor, Industrial Organization, Political Economics.
Economics^Winners and Losers from Globalization Winners and Losers from Globalization The economic effects of globalization on individuals, governments, nation- states and business.
Economics^Managerial Economics Managerial Economics Application of economic theory to managerial decision making; risk, uncertainty; models and statistical techniques.
Economics^Economics of Law and Regulation Economics of Law and Regulation An economic analysis of property rights, contractual arrangements, illegal activities, and regulation; competitive problems due to externalities and market failure.
Economics^Economics of the Corporation Economics of the Corporation Coordination and incentive issues within a corporation. Topics include employment contracts, performance incentives and pricing of financial assets.
Economics^Health Economics Health Economics Economic analysis of U.S. health care system; planning, organization, and financing; current public policy issues and alternatives.
Economics^Health Economics Health Economics Economic analysis of U.S. health care system; planning, organization, and financing; current public policy issues and alternatives.
Economics^Economics of Industry Evolution Economics of Industry Evolution Dynamics of industry evolution; empirical evidence and theoretical modeling of firm entry, growth, and exit; entrepreneurship; investment and strategic behavior.
Economics^Economics of Industry Evolution Economics of Industry Evolution Dynamics of industry evolution; empirical evidence and theoretical modeling of firm entry, growth, and exit; entrepreneurship; investment and strategic behavior.
Economics^Economics of Sports Economics of Sports Topics in sports; demand, owners, ticket resale, leagues, markets, efficiency, antitrust, discrimination, collegiate sports.
Economics^Economics of Sports Economics of Sports Examination of economic issues pertaining to professional and collegiate sports, including analysis of industrial organization, labor markets, and local economies.
Economics^Economics of Auctions and Procurements Economics of Auctions and Procurements Theoretical and empirical analyses of auctions and procurements; different modeling environments; econometric analysis of auction and procurement data.
Economics^Economics of Auctions and Procurements Economics of Auctions and Procurements Theoretical and empirical analyses of auctions and procurements; different modeling environments; econometric analysis of auction and procurement data.
Economics^Economics of Collusion Economics of Collusion Collusion, Bidding Rings, Antitrust, Price Fixing, Incentives, Law
Economics^Economics of Collusion Economics of Collusion Theoretical and empirical analysis of collusion among firms, case studies of cartel behavior, bidding behavior at auctions and procurements.
Economics^The Business Cycle The Business Cycle Measurement and theories of the business cycle; stabilization policies; forecasting.
Economics^Monetary Theory and Policy Monetary Theory and Policy Monetary and income theory; monetary and fiscal policy.
Economics^Economics of the Financial Crisis Economics of the Financial Crisis This course studies the economics of financial crises with special emphasis on 2008.
Economics^Financial Crises Financial Crises Examination of causes and consequences of financial crises; asset pricing theory, market efficiency, speculative bubbles; policy considerations.
Economics^Economics of Mergers Economics of Mergers Economic analysis of horizontal and vertical mergers; econometric issues in measurement of unilateral and coordinated effects; policy issues.
Economics^Economics of the Internet Economics of the Internet Economics of the Internet; electronic commerce and network economics; pricing issues; intellectual property.
Economics^Economics of the Internet Economics of the Internet Economics of the Internet; electronic commerce and network economics; pricing issues; intellectual property.
Economics^Economics of Organizations Economics of Organizations Consumers, Firms, Utility Maximization, Profit Function, Equilibrium, Firm Distribution.
Economics^Economics of Organizations Economics of Organizations An advanced course in the economics of organizations. The focus is on coordination, incentives, contracts, and information in corporations.
Economics^Issues in Sports Economics Issues in Sports Economics Economic analysis of professional and collegiate sports: organization, input and output markets, the public sector, decision-making, and public policy.
Economics^Economic Demography Economic Demography Microeconomics of demographic behavior; interrelationships between demographic and economic factors, in developing and industrialized economies; economic welfare and policy implications.
Economics^Economic Demography Economic Demography Microeconomics of demographic behavior; interrelationships between demographic and economic factors, in developing and industrialized economies; economic welfare and policy implications.
Economics^Cross Sectional Econometrics Cross Sectional Econometrics Econometrics, simultaneous equations, discrete choice, sample selection.
Economics^Cross Sectional Econometrics Cross Sectional Econometrics Discrete choice models, censored and truncated regression models, longitudinal models, applications.
Economics^Panel Data Models Panel Data Models Random and fixed effects, endogeneity, balanced and unbalanced panels, censoring of spells, differences in differences, applications.
Economics^Panel Data Models Panel Data Models Random and fixed effects, endogeneity, balanced and unbalanced panels, censoring of spells, differences in differences, applications.
Economics^International Trade and Finance International Trade and Finance Economic analysis of why nations trade, barriers to trade, the international monetary system, and macroeconomic policy in an open economy.
Economics^Growth and Development Growth and Development Problems of capital formation, institutional considerations, theories of economic growth.
Economics^Transition to Market Economies Transition to Market Economies Economics of transition to a market economy; problems of former Soviet-type economies; privatization, stabilization, and institutional change.
Economics^China in the Global Economy: History, Culture, and Society China in the Global Economy: History, Culture, and Society Analysis of China's role in the global economy and the impact on U.S. as well as global business and society.
Economics^Migration and Development Migration and Development Human Capital Approach to Migration; Economics of Family Migration; Evidence: Micro and Macro Perspectives; Migration Policies.
Economics^Migration and Development Migration and Development Human Capital Approach to Migration; Economics of Family Migration; Evidence: Micro and Macro Perspectives; Migration Policies.
Economics^The Economics of Fertility in the Developing World The Economics of Fertility in the Developing World Demand for children, supply of children, and costs of fertility regulation; fertility transition; public policies to affect fertility.
Economics^Labor Markets in Developing Countries Labor Markets in Developing Countries Labor demand and supply in developing countries; urban and rural labor markets, modern and informal sectors; policy issues.
Economics^Incomplete Markets Incomplete Markets Rural land markets, fragmented credit markets, risk and insurance, human capital and labor markets, innovation and technology spillovers, coordination failures.
Economics^Economics of Matching Economics of Matching Economic application of matching to employment, marriage, organ markets, and medical residents.
Economics^Economics of Matching Economics of Matching Economic application of matching to employment, marriage, organ markets, and medical residents.
Economics^Mathematical Economics Mathematical Economics Mathematical techniques employed in economic analysis; formal development of economic relationships.
Economics^Business Forecasting Techniques Business Forecasting Techniques A survey of contemporary business forecasting techniques, with emphasis on smoothing, decomposition, and regression techniques.
Economics^Economic Forecasting Economic Forecasting Forecasting time series, using linear regression models and econometric software; useful forecasting models; financial and seasonal time series; trends.
Economics^Econometric Techniques Econometric Techniques Applying statistical techniques to test and explain economic relationships; integration of economic theory with observed economic phenomena.
Economics^Introduction to Econometrics Introduction to Econometrics Use of simple and multiple regression models in measuring and testing economic relationships. Problems including multicollinearity, hetroskedasticity, and serial correlation.
Economics^Late Bidding in Reverse Auctions Late Bidding in Reverse Auctions Examine the impact of late bidding on the final prices of reverse auctions and determine factors that cause late bidding for samples of auctions completed by Fortune 500 Firms. Grading 30% discussion, 70% final paper.
Economics^Banking Theory and Practice Banking Theory and Practice Work with local bank, Northwest, to: a) recognize lending opportunities, b) complete loan scenario, c) analyze balance sheet, income statement for a particular load, and d) write report on learning experience. Evaluation: 25% each part.
Economics^The Competitive Effects of Bank Mergers The Competitive Effects of Bank Mergers Given recent legislation promoting bank mergers, the market for small banks is harsh so this study focuses on the response to the legislation.
Economics^Environmental Economics and Policy Environmental Economics and Policy Use of fundamental economic principles to evaluate problems of air and water pollution and general environmental quality. Issues relating to externalities and public goods; valuation of environmental assets; use of benefit/cost analysis for decision-making; economic approaches to non-renewable and renewable resource management; topics in ecological economics and sustainability.
Economics^Foreign Study--Economics Foreign Study--Economics Study in selected countries of economic institutions and current economic problems.
Statistics^Statistical Concepts and Reasoning Statistical Concepts and Reasoning Introduction to the art and science of decision making in the presence of uncertainty.
Statistics^Elementary Statistics Elementary Statistics Descriptive statistics, frequency distributions, probability, binomial and normal distributions, statistical inference, linear regression, and correlation.
Statistics^Elementary Statistics Elementary Statistics Descriptive statistics, frequency distributions, probability, binomial and normal distributions, statistical inference, linear regression, and correlation.
Statistics^Basic Statistics for Quantitative Students Basic Statistics for Quantitative Students Descriptive statistics, probability, binomial and normal distributions, one and two sample models, introduction to regression, ANOVA and contingency tables. Students may only take one course from STAT 200, 220, and 250 for credit.
Statistics^Introduction to Biometry Introduction to Biometry Statistical analysis, sampling, and experimentation in the agricultural sciences; data collection, descriptive statistics, statistical inference, regression, one factor AOV, probability. Students may take only one course from STAT 200, 220, 240, 250 for credit.
Statistics^Introduction to Biostatistics Introduction to Biostatistics Statistical analysis and interpretation of data in the biological sciences; probability; distributions; statistical inference for one- and two-sample problems.
Statistics^Descriptive Statistics Descriptive Statistics Descriptive statistics, frequency distributions, probability, binomial and distributions, statistical inference, linear regression, and correlation.
Statistics^Statistical Analysis I Statistical Analysis I Probability concepts; nature of statistical methods; elementary distribution and sampling theory; fundamental ideas relative to estimation and testing hypotheses.
Statistics^Elementary Probability Elementary Probability Combinatorial analysis, axioms of probability, conditional probability and independence, discrete and continuous random variables, expectation, limit theorems, additional topics. Students who have passed either STAT 414 or 418 may not schedule this course for credit.
Statistics^Applied Statistics in Science Applied Statistics in Science Statistical inference: principles and methods, estimation and testing hypotheses, regression and correlation analysis, analysis of variance, computer analysis. Students who have passed STAT  415 may not schedule this course for credit.
Statistics^Experimental Methods Experimental Methods Random variables; probability density functions; estimation; statistical tests, t-tests; correlation; simple linear regression; one-way analysis of variance; randomized blocks.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability Theory Introduction to Probability Theory Probability spaces, discrete and continuous random variables, transformations, expectations, generating functions, conditional distributions, law of large numbers, central limit theorems. Students may take only one course from STAT 414 and 418.
Statistics^Introduction to Mathematical Statistics Introduction to Mathematical Statistics A theoretical treatment of statistical inference, including sufficiency, estimation, testing, regression, analysis of variance, and chi-square tests.
Statistics^Stochastic Modeling Stochastic Modeling Review of distribution models, probability generating functions, transforms, convolutions, Markov chains, equilibrium distributions, Poisson process, birth and death processes, estimation.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineering Introduction to Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineering Introduction to probability axioms, combinatorics, random variables, limit laws, and stochastic processes. Students may take only one course from MATH 414 and 418 for credit.
Statistics^Computational Statistics Computational Statistics Topics related to computing in statistics, including numerical linear algebra, optimization, simulation, numerical integration, and bootstrapping.
Statistics^Intermediate Applied Statistics Intermediate Applied Statistics Review of hypothesis testing, goodness-of-fit tests, regression, correlation analysis, completely randomized designs, randomized complete block designs, latin squares.
Statistics^Analysis of Variance Analysis of Variance Analysis of variance for single and multifactor designs; response surface methodology.
Statistics^Applied Regression Analysis Applied Regression Analysis Introduction to linear and multiple regression; correlation; choice of models, stepwise regression, nonlinear regression.
Statistics^Applied Time Series Analysis Applied Time Series Analysis Identification of models for empirical data collected over time; use of models in forecasting.
Statistics^Applied Nonparametric Statistics Applied Nonparametric Statistics Tests based on nominal and ordinal data for both related and independent samples. Chi-square tests, correlation.
Statistics^Survey Sampling Survey Sampling Introduction to design and analysis of sample surveys, including questionnaire design, data collection, sampling methods, and ratio and regression estimation.
Statistics^Problem Solving and Communication in Applied Statistics Problem Solving and Communication in Applied Statistics Provide problem solving and communication skills through development of writing ability, interaction with peers and the SCC, and oral presentations.
Statistics^Introduction to SAS Introduction to SAS Introduction to SAS with emphasis on reading, manipulating and summarizing data.
Statistics^Intermediate SAS for Data Management Intermediate SAS for Data Management Intermediate SAS for data management.
Statistics^Advanced Topics in SAS Advanced Topics in SAS Advanced statistical procedures in SAS, including ANOVA, GLM, CORR, REG, MANOVA, FACTOR, DISCRIM, LOGISTIC, MIXED, GRAPH, EXPORT, and SQL.
Statistics^Statistical Analysis System Programming Statistical Analysis System Programming Introduction, intermediate, and advanced topics in SAS. Credit can not be received for both STAT 483 and STAT 480/481/482.
Statistics^Topics in Stat Computing with R Topics in Stat Computing with R Topics in Stat Computing with R. Topics: 1) Basic background on R 2) manipulating data I 3) Finding help 4) Simple univariate data 5) importing data 6) Documenting your work 7) Manipulating data II 8) Repetitive tasks - loops and the apply  family 9) visual data 10) Basic analysis (as much as possible we'll work with real data.
Statistics^Topics in Stat Computing with R Topics in Stat Computing with R Topics in Stat Computing with R  Topics: 1) Basic background on R II) Manipulating data I III) Finding help V) Simple univariate data V) importing data VI) Documenting your work VI) Manipulating data II VII) Repetitive tasks - loops and the apply  family IX) visual data X) Basic analysis
Theatre^First-Year Seminar: Theatre Production Practices First-Year Seminar: Theatre Production Practices An orientation to the School of Theatre production practices, resources, faculty, and practicum.
Theatre^Pit Orchestra Pit Orchestra Rehearsal and performance of contemporary and historical musical theatre styles, including operetta and light opera.
Theatre^The Art of the Theatre The Art of the Theatre An experiential survey of all aspects of the living theatre, as presented by a resident company of theatre artists.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Acting Fundamentals of Acting Introduction to the art and craft of acting for non-theatre majors.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Directing Fundamentals of Directing Training and experience in basic skills of directing. Designed for non- theatre majors.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Theatre Production Fundamentals of Theatre Production Training and experience in basic skills of technical theatre. Designed for non-theatre majors.
Theatre^Introduction to Theatre Introduction to Theatre An introduction and overview of the history, craft, and art of the theatre to foster an informed appreciation of theatrical events. This course is an alternate to THEA 100.
Theatre^Introduction to Dramatic Structure Introduction to Dramatic Structure An introduction to structural analysis in dramatic literature.
Theatre^Introduction to Musical Theatre Introduction to Musical Theatre A survey of music theatre as an art form.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Theory I Musical Theatre Theory I Studies in the fundamentals of music notation and sight-singing.
Theatre^Music Theatre:  Form and Analysis Music Theatre:  Form and Analysis A survey of music theatre as an art form.
Theatre^B.F.A. Acting Foundations B.F.A. Acting Foundations Fundamental aspects of training the actor's body, voice, mental focus, and imagination.
Theatre^Acting I Acting I Fundamental skills and training in acting. Emphasis on physical/vocal awareness and the nature of dramatic communication. Theatre majors only.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Acting II Fundamentals of Acting II This course is a continuation of THEA 120 and designed to build upon the basic foundation of acting.
Theatre^Introduction to Theatre Scenic and Costume Technology Introduction to Theatre Scenic and Costume Technology Introduction to the methods, materials, equipment, concepts and processes involved in the construction of scenery and costumes for the theatre.
Theatre^Introduction to Theatre Sound and Lighting Technology Introduction to Theatre Sound and Lighting Technology Introduction to the methods, materials, equipment, facilities, concepts and processes used to create theatre lighting and sound.
Theatre^Basic Theatrical Makeup Basic Theatrical Makeup Both straight and corrective makeup, with character and styling techniques for stage, film, and television.
Theatre^Fundamentals of Design for the Theatre Fundamentals of Design for the Theatre Exploration of the philosophy and technique of scenic, costume, and lighting design.
Theatre^Introduction to Stage Lighting Production Techniques Introduction to Stage Lighting Production Techniques Introduction to theatre lighting facilities, equipment, and practice. Practical experience with major productions.
Theatre^Introduction to Stagecraft Introduction to Stagecraft Introduction to methods, materials, equipment, facilities, and concepts used in scenery construction for the Theatre. Practical experience with departmental productions.
Theatre^Theatre Production Practicum Theatre Production Practicum * Supervised experience in theatre by crew participation in University theatre productions. For non-theatre students only.
Theatre^Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Theatre^Script Analysis Script Analysis An introduction to script analysis for theatre majors, which focus on full text analysis as a foundation for area specific analysis. Two styles of analysis  are studied.
Theatre^Beginning Scene Study Beginning Scene Study Introduction to the fundamentals of scene study through readings, improvisations, exercises and scene work.
Theatre^Gender and Theatre Gender and Theatre A study of theatre and drama literature as formed by issues of gender, race, and ethnic background.
Theatre^Workshop: Theatre in Diverse Cultures Workshop: Theatre in Diverse Cultures A performance-oriented class which explores the historic and contemporary theatrical works of various culturally diverse peoples.
Theatre^Workshop:  Theatre in Diverse Cultures Workshop:  Theatre in Diverse Cultures A performance-oriented class, which explores the historic and contemporary theatrical works of various culturally diverse peoples.
Theatre^Hip Hop Theatre Hip Hop Theatre Hip Hop Theatre defines and explores Hip Hop as an art form. The student will explore Hip Hop culture through Hip Hop Theatre aesthetics: Emceeing, Dejaying, Beat boxing, graffiti art, and dance.
Theatre^Hip Hop Theatre Performance Workshop Hip Hop Theatre Performance Workshop Hip Hop Theatre Performance Workshop expands on the Hip Hop Theatre lecture component and experience from Hip Hop Theatre, and delves more into a performance and workshop structure. Students will apply themes studied in Hip Hop THEA 209 or DANCE 271 to this course, which focuses on performance experiences.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Theory II Musical Theatre Theory II Intermediate studies in diatonic harmony, analysis, sight-singing and dictation.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Theory III Musical Theatre Theory III Advanced studies in the technique and practice of chromatic harmonic analysis and sight-singing.
Theatre^Acting II Acting II Principles of acting through improvisation, exercises, and character analysis, with emphasis on basic skills of voice and movement. For theatre majors only.
Theatre^Acting III Acting III A continuation of Thea. 220. For Theatre majors only.
Theatre^Acting Laboratory Acting Laboratory Laboratory experience in student-directed scenes and/or one-act plays.
Theatre^Musicical Theatre Performance I Musicical Theatre Performance I Studio training in the unique performance skills, repertoire and business of professional music theatre.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Performance II Musical Theatre Performance II Studio training in the unique performance skills, repertoire and business of professional music theatre.
Theatre^B.F.A. Acting Studio I B.F.A. Acting Studio I Exercises to develop truthful listening and responding as a foundation for acting studio scene study.
Theatre^B.F.A. Movement Studio I B.F.A. Movement Studio I Introduction to techniques to condition the actor and improve physical awareness and self-use.
Theatre^B.F.A. Voice/Speech Studio I B.F.A. Voice/Speech Studio I Introduction to actor voice and speech training.
Theatre^Introduction to Scene Design Introduction to Scene Design Introduction to the history, processes, materials, and concepts involved in designing scenery for the theatre.
Theatre^Theatre Drafting Techniques Theatre Drafting Techniques Introduction to drafting of floor plans, section drawings, construction graphics, and mechanical perspective for the theatre.
Theatre^Design Presentation Techniques Design Presentation Techniques Media and materials exploration; sketching, rendering, and modeling methods.
Theatre^Scene Painting Scene Painting Introduction to painting scenery for the theatre; methods and materials.
Theatre^Introduction to Costume Design Introduction to Costume Design Introduction to costume design process through character analysis and the use of color, line, and texture.
Theatre^Introduction to Costume Construction Techniques Introduction to Costume Construction Techniques Intermediate study of the methods, materials, equipment, concepts and processes involved in the construction of costumes for the theatre.
Theatre^Introduction to Lighting Design Introduction to Lighting Design This course will focus on helping each student to develop a design process that takes them from script to stage.
Theatre^Introduction to Technical Direction for the Theatre Introduction to Technical Direction for the Theatre Introduction to the methods, materials, equipment, facilities, concepts and processes associated with Technical Direction for the Theatre.
Theatre^Production Practicum Production Practicum Introduction to all aspects of theatre production--analysis, design, construction, production, performance--for non-theatre majors.
Theatre^Introduction to Sound Design Introduction to Sound Design An introduction to sound design for the theatre.
Theatre^Theatre Production Practicum Theatre Production Practicum Supervised experience in production techniques.
Theatre^Teaching Assistant for THEA 102 Teaching Assistant for THEA 102 Teaching assistant for THEA 102: Introduction to Theatre.
Theatre^Special Topics: Unarmed Violence for the Stage Special Topics: Unarmed Violence for the Stage This is a course in specialized stage movement, with a focus on unarmed violence for the stage. The curriculum rendered will be the techniques and methods for unarmed violence for stage as codified by the Society of American Fight Directors . Upon completion of the course, students will exhibit the ability to: 1) Execute basic unarmed stage violence techniques safely; 2) Express the character, emotion, and idea of a scripted text through designed movement patterns in a theatrical performance; 3) Adjust to the individual style of different choreographers of theatrical violence.
Theatre^Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Theatre^Voice and Speech I Voice and Speech I Vocal techniques for the actor: articulation, voice control, support, and projection.
Theatre^Movement for Actors I Movement for Actors I Techniques and skills in physical expression, awareness, control, and stage movement.
Theatre^Movement for Actors II Movement for Actors II Continuation of THEA 324.
Theatre^Music Theatre Performance Workshop Music Theatre Performance Workshop Performance studies in cabaret, revue, and club environments.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Auditions Musical Theatre Auditions Research and preparation of auditions for work in professional musical theatre venues.
Theatre^Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Courses offered in foreign countries by individuals or group instruction.
Theatre^Advanced Theatre Projects Advanced Theatre Projects Individual and group-directed study of in-depth projects involving reading, discussion, performance, and critical analysis by faculty.
Theatre^Theatre History I: Ancient to 1700 Theatre History I: Ancient to 1700 Survey of drama and theatre from primitive rites through the Renaissance.
Theatre^Theatre History II: From 1700 to Present Theatre History II: From 1700 to Present Survey of European drama and theatre from the eighteenth century through the modern period.
Theatre^Theatre History: American Theatre Theatre History: American Theatre Survey of American drama and theatre from the colonial period to the present.
Theatre^Women and Theatre Women and Theatre A study of theatre practice and dramatic literature as informed by issues of gender, race, and ethnic background.
Theatre^History of American Musical Theatre History of American Musical Theatre A survey of the history of American musical theatre presented in a social, cultural, and aesthetic prospective.
Theatre^Play Analysis Play Analysis Advanced skills in textual analysis of plays and screenplays.
Theatre^African American Theatre African American Theatre Exploration of the development of African American theatre from its roots in Africa through the diaspora, to the present time.
Theatre^Scene Study I Scene Study I Advanced monologue and scene study techniques. Principal focus on realism.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Performance III Musical Theatre Performance III Studio training in the unique performance skills, repertoire and business of professional musical theatre.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Performance IV Musical Theatre Performance IV Studio training in the unique performance skills, repertoire and business of professional musical theatre.
Theatre^B.F.A. Acting Studio II B.F.A. Acting Studio II Scene Study
Theatre^B.F.A. Voice/Speech Studio II B.F.A. Voice/Speech Studio II Advanced voice and speech training for BFA Musical Theatre students.
Theatre^Children's Theatre Children's Theatre Theories and practice of theatre for children.
Theatre^B.F.A. Acting Studio III B.F.A. Acting Studio III Continuation of THEA 425A
Theatre^B.F.A. Voice/Speech Studio III B.F.A. Voice/Speech Studio III Stage Dialect Studies
Theatre^Theatre Performance Practicum Theatre Performance Practicum Supervised experience in rehearsal and performance of significant roles.
Theatre^Introduction to Directing Introduction to Directing Introduction to principles and procedures of play direction.
Theatre^Directorial Processes Directorial Processes Preparing a play for production including the scoring of thescript, developing ground plan, casting, and staging projects in American realism.
Theatre^Artistic Staff for Production Artistic Staff for Production To provide students with experience in choreography, dramaturgy, combat, staging, voice/speech, musical direction, assisting in direction, for major productions.
Theatre^Principles of Playwriting Principles of Playwriting Structure, dramatic effect, characterization, and dialogue; the writing, reading, and criticism of original one-act plays.
Theatre^Make-Up Design for Production Make-Up Design for Production Materials, research, preparation, design, execution of make-up for major University Theatre productions.
Theatre^Advanced Topics in Scene Design Advanced Topics in Scene Design Design emphasis on a variety of production techniques, genre, and styles.
Theatre^Drafting, Drawing, and Painting for the Theatre Drafting, Drawing, and Painting for the Theatre Drafting, freehand drawing including perspective methods and property development, rendering techniques, and painters' elevations.
Theatre^Advanced Scene Painting Advanced Scene Painting Practicum study in painting techniques currently in professional use. Exploration of tools, available paints, and texturing materials.
Theatre^Period Research for the Theatre Period Research for the Theatre History of decor, styles, and movements in art and architecture.
Theatre^Scenic Projects for Production Scenic Projects for Production Special projects for production; painting, properties, design assistance.
Theatre^Scene Design for Production Scene Design for Production Design and execution of production projects.
Theatre^Digital Imaging for the Theatre Digital Imaging for the Theatre Introduction to imaging software and its application in theatrical design and production.
Theatre^Theatre Portfolio & Business Practices Theatre Portfolio & Business Practices Life as a professional theatre designer. Contracts, taxes, record-keeping, resumes, portfolios, interviewing, job hunting, and legal considerations.
Theatre^Advanced Topics in Costume Design Advanced Topics in Costume Design Developing and executing a design concept in a variety of the performing arts.
Theatre^Advanced Topics in Costume Construction and Technology Advanced Topics in Costume Construction and Technology A specialized course in advanced costume construction techniques and theatrical costume technologies.
Theatre^History of Fashion History of Fashion Survey of dress from Egyptian period to contemporary fashion.
Theatre^History of Fashion II History of Fashion II Survey of dress from 1800 to contemporary fashion.
Theatre^Costume Construction for Production Costume Construction for Production Execution of production projects in construction and shop management.
Theatre^Costume Design for Production Costume Design for Production Design and execution of production design projects.
Theatre^Advanced Topics in Lighting Design Advanced Topics in Lighting Design Advanced Topics in Lighting Design will rotate through opera, dance, non-traditional spaces, architecture, advanced technology, and color theory.
Theatre^Lighting Technology Lighting Technology An introduction to the basics of electricity, dimmer protocols, lightboard programming, lighting paperwork, and master electrician &amp; assistant lighting design practices.
Theatre^Lighting Design for Production Lighting Design for Production Design and execution of design projects.
Theatre^Advanced Topics in Technical Direction for the Theatre Advanced Topics in Technical Direction for the Theatre Advanced study of the methods, materials, equipment, facilities, concepts and processes associated with Technical Direction for the Theatre.
Theatre^Technical Production IV Technical Production IV Discussion of problems of the technical director: personnel management, time management, scheduling, budgeting, purchasing, and the technical drawing of production.
Theatre^Stage and Production Management Stage and Production Management Production planning, scheduling, assignment of personnel, rehearsal procedures, and budgeting.
Theatre^Technical Production - Rigging Technical Production - Rigging In-depth exploration of current rigging techniques used in entertainment.
Theatre^Sound Recording Techniques Sound Recording Techniques Multi-track audio recording and post production techniques.
Theatre^Sound for Theatre Production Sound for Theatre Production Aesthetics of live and recorded sound; recording and editing techniques for the stage.
Theatre^Stage Management for Production Stage Management for Production Stage manager for University Theatre production.
Theatre^Technical Projects for Production Technical Projects for Production Execution of practical production projects.
Theatre^Theatre Production Practicum Theatre Production Practicum Supervised experience in production techniques. For theatre majors only.
Theatre^Research Projects - Honors Research Projects - Honors Supervised student activites on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Theatre^Internship Practicum Internship Practicum Professional field experience in theatre performance, production, and management assignments.
Theatre^Independent Studies - Honors Independent Studies - Honors Creative projects, including research and design, supervised on an individual basis and which fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Theatre^Musical Theatre Studio V Musical Theatre Studio V Entry to MFA Musical Theatre Directing.
Theatre^Writers' Room Writers' Room Workshop for students writing the script for the School of Theatre sitcom.
Theatre^The Business of the Business The Business of the Business Practical information about working in the theatre.
Theatre^The Writers' Room The Writers' Room The Writers' Room is a class that provides the scripts for "Public Access," a PSU situation comdedy that begins its first season this fall. Episodes will be shot primarily in the Media Tech Building.
Theatre^Hand to Hand: Combat for the Stage and Street Hand to Hand: Combat for the Stage and Street This class teaches the student impulse work, safety, real life self-defense, and the basics of marital arts. Students have the option of testing and gaining rank  in Taekwondo.
Theatre^Honors London Theatre Studies Honors London Theatre Studies Supervised in-depth exploration of London Theatre includes Spring Break in London.
Theatre^Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Foreign Studies--Theatre Arts Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Mechanical Engineering^M M No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Chemistry^Molecular Science Molecular Science Selected concepts and topics designed to give non-science majors an appreciation for how chemistry impacts everyday life. Students who have received credit for CHEM 003, 101, or 110 may not schedule this course.
Chemistry^Molecular Science With Laboratory Molecular Science With Laboratory Selected concepts and topics designed to give non-science majors an appreciation for how chemistry impacts everyday life. Students who have received credit for CHEM 001, 101, or 110 may not schedule this course.
Chemistry^Kitchen Chemistry Kitchen Chemistry An elementary discussion of the chemistry associated with foods and cooking.
Chemistry^Environmental Chemistry Environmental Chemistry Applications of chemistry to environmental problems, including air, water, thermal pollution; pesticides; drugs and birth control agents; food additives; etc. For non-chemistry majors; chemistry majors will not receive credit.
Chemistry^Environmental Chemistry Laboratory Environmental Chemistry Laboratory Introduction of basic laboratory techniques and data analysis used in environmental chemistry.
Chemistry^Introductory Chemistry Introductory Chemistry Selected principles and applications of chemistry. Prior study of chemistry is not assumed. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from CHEM 101 or CHEM 110. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from CHEM 101 GN or CHEM 110 GN.
Chemistry^Introductory and General Chemistry Introductory and General Chemistry Introductory chemistry and chemical principles for students who are required to take additional chemistry, e.g., CHEM 112, but are unprepared for CHEM 110. GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Problem Solving in Chemistry Problem Solving in Chemistry Techniques, strategies, and skills for solving problems in general chemistry for students potentially at risk in CHEM 110.
Chemistry^Chemical Principles I Chemical Principles I Basic concepts and quantitative relations. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from CHEM 110 or CHEM 101. GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and . Students may take only one course for General Education credit from CHEM 101 GN or CHEM 110 GN.
Chemistry^Chemical Principles I - Honors Chemical Principles I - Honors Basic concepts and quantitative relations of chemistry at a level appropriate for students with advanced backgrounds and talents. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from CHEM 110 or CHEM 101. GN to receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and . GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Experimental Chemistry I Experimental Chemistry I Introduction to quantitative experimentation in chemistry. GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Chemical Principles II Chemical Principles II Continuation of CHEM 110, including an introduction to the chemistry of the elements. GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Chemical Principles II - Honors Chemical Principles II - Honors Continuation of CHEM 110, including an introduction to the chemistry of the elements. GN to receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and  and . GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Experimental Chemistry II Experimental Chemistry II Continuation of CHEM 111, with emphasis on topics related to CHEM 112. GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Experimental Chemistry II--Bioscience Experimental Chemistry II--Bioscience A continuation of CHEM 111 with emphasis on topics related to CHEM 112 in the context of bioscience. GN To receive Natural Sciences General Education  credit for certain chemistry courses requires both lecture and laboratory courses be taken. These courses are:  and CHEM 111;  and .
Chemistry^Fundamentals of Organic Chemistry I Fundamentals of Organic Chemistry I Introduction to organic chemistry, with emphasis on the properties of organic compounds of biochemical importance. Because of duplication of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 202 and CHEM 210.
Chemistry^Fundamentals of Organic Chemistry II Fundamentals of Organic Chemistry II Introduction to organic chemistry, with emphasis on the identification of organic compounds by characteristic chemical reactions and by spectroscopy. The course involves both lecture and laboratory. Because of duplication of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 203 and CHEM 213.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry I Organic Chemistry I Bonding theories for organic molecules; stereochemistry and conformational analysis; reactions  of alkyl halides, alkenes, alkynes, aromatics, and alcohols.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry I - Honors Organic Chemistry I - Honors Principles and theories; nomenclature; chemistry of the functional groups; applications of spectroscopy. Because of duplication of material, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 210 and 202.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry II Organic Chemistry II Continuation of CHEM 210. Emphasis is placed on the role of organic reactions in biological chemistry.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry II - Honors Organic Chemistry II - Honors Continuation of CHEM 210. Emphasis is on the chemistry of carbonyl compounds, spectroscopic analysis and pericyclic reactions.
Chemistry^Laboratory in Organic Chemistry Laboratory in Organic Chemistry Basic laboratory operations; synthesis and chemical or instrumental analysis. Because of duplication of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 203 and CHEM 213.
Chemistry^Laboratory in Organic Chemistry--Bioscience Laboratory in Organic Chemistry--Bioscience Basic laboratory operations; synthesis and chemical or instrumental analysis of materials of biological significance. Because of duplication of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 203 and CHEM 213.
Chemistry^Laboratory in Organic Chemistry - Honors Laboratory in Organic Chemistry - Honors Basic laboratory techniques learned in context via theme-based modules, spectral analysis, multi-step synthesis, and professional scientific writing. Because of similarity of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 203 and CHEM 213.
Chemistry^Laboratory in Organic Chemistry - Honors, Writing Intensive Laboratory in Organic Chemistry - Honors, Writing Intensive Basic laboratory techniques learned in context via theme-based modules, spectral analysis, multi-step synthesis, and professional scientific writing. Because of similarity of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 203 and CHEM 213.
Chemistry^Laboratory in Organic Chemistry - Writing Intensive Laboratory in Organic Chemistry - Writing Intensive Basic laboratory techniques learned in context via theme-based modules, spectral analysis, multi-step synthesis, and professional scientific writing. Because of similarity of subject matter, students may not receive credit for both CHEM 203 and CHEM 213.
Chemistry^Quantitative Analysis Quantitative Analysis Traditional methods of gravimetric, volumetric, and electrochemical analysis, emphasizing acid-base, solubility, and oxidation-reduction equilibria.
Chemistry^Analytical Chemistry Analytical Chemistry Analytical methods used in the biological and physical sciences with special e emphasis on acid-base and complexation equilibria, electrochemistry, and the fundamental principles of spectroscopy and separations.
Chemistry^Chemistry and Literature Chemistry and Literature Exploration of key concepts of chemistry, the reciprocal influence of chemistry and literature throughout history, and the relationship of science to society, culture, and values.
Chemistry^Special Problems and Research Special Problems and Research Designed for freshman or sophomore students who are prepared to undertake special problems and research by arrangement with a faculty member.
Chemistry^Special Problems and Research - Honors Special Problems and Research - Honors Designed for freshman or sophomore students who are prepared to undertake special problems and research by arrangement with a faculty member.
Chemistry^Environmental Chemistry and Analysis Environmental Chemistry and Analysis Chemical principles, interpretation, and methods of analysis for groundwater, water supply, wastewater treatment, stream pollution.
Chemistry^Introductory Inorganic Chemistry Introductory Inorganic Chemistry Conceptual and descriptive aspects of inorganic chemistry, focusing on structures, bonding, and properties.
Chemistry^The Professional Chemist The Professional Chemist Industrial employment opportunities and challenges; graduate and professional school opportunities; tailoring the chemistry curriculum to career goals.
Chemistry^Chemistry Teacher Assistant Training Chemistry Teacher Assistant Training Instruction and practice in the role of the teaching assistant in the undergraduate chemistry laboratory.
Chemistry^Chemical Literature Chemical Literature Instruction in use of the library and of the literature of chemistry.
Chemistry^Chemistry in the Environment Chemistry in the Environment Chemistry of the atmosphere, natural waters, and the land surface with particular focus on human influence on processes occurring therein.
Chemistry^Nuclear and Radiochemistry Nuclear and Radiochemistry Theory of radioactive decay processes, nuclear properties and structure, nuclear reactions, interactions of radiation with matter, biological effects of radiation.
Chemistry^Computational Chemistry Computational Chemistry Introduction to numerical and nonnumerical computer uses in physical science.
Chemistry^Inorganic Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry Conceptual and descriptive aspects of nontransition elements, covering structural, thermodynamic, and kinetic features.
Chemistry^Transition Metal Chemistry Transition Metal Chemistry Structure and bonding of compounds containing transition metals.
Chemistry^Chemistry of the Elements Chemistry of the Elements Theoretical and descriptive chemistry of the elements; laboratory synthesis and measurements in inorganic, coordination, and transition metal chemistry.
Chemistry^Chemical Spectroscopy Chemical Spectroscopy Modern methods and instruments of spectroscopy and their applications to problems of chemical structure and analysis.
Chemistry^Chromatography and Electrochemistry Chromatography and Electrochemistry Gas, liquid, and other forms of chromatography; important techniques of electrochemistry.
Chemistry^Chromatography and Electrochemistry Chromatography and Electrochemistry Gas, liquid, and other forms of chromatography; important techniques of electrochemistry.
Chemistry^Forensic Chemistry Forensic Chemistry Analytical and instrumental methods used in the forensic sciences with special emphasis on the analysis and characterization of trace evidence.
Chemistry^Structural Analysis of Organic Compounds Structural Analysis of Organic Compounds Spectroscopic methods as tools in gross and detailed structural analysis and interpretation within the framework of modern theory.
Chemistry^Organic and Inorganic Preparations Organic and Inorganic Preparations Preparation, purification, and characterization of both organic and inorganic compounds by modern methods.
Chemistry^Organic Reaction Mechanisms Organic Reaction Mechanisms The study, evaluation, and discussion of the mechanisms of selected organic reactions.
Chemistry^Instrumental Analysis Instrumental Analysis General instrumental theory and methods used in common atomic and molecular analyses.
Chemistry^Elemental Analysis and Instrumental Design Laboratory Elemental Analysis and Instrumental Design Laboratory An introduction to the use of modern instruments for problems in chemical structure and analysis.
Chemistry^Electrochemistry and Chromatography Laboratory Electrochemistry and Chromatography Laboratory An introduction to the use of modern instruments for problems in chemical structure and analysis.
Chemistry^Atomic and Molecular Spectroscopy Laboratory Atomic and Molecular Spectroscopy Laboratory An introduction to the use of modern instruments for problems in chemical structure and analysis.
Chemistry^X-Ray Crystallography X-Ray Crystallography Theoretical and practical aspects of structure determination using x-ray diffraction, from crystal growth to structure solution.
Chemistry^Surface Chemistry Surface Chemistry Surface chemistry, emphasizing the physical and chemical aspects of surfaces important for applications in colloids, catalysis, microelectronics and biocompatibility.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry - Thermodynamics Physical Chemistry - Thermodynamics Introduction to physical chemistry with primary emphasis on chemical thermodynamics and its molecular interpretation.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry - Quantum Chemistry Physical Chemistry - Quantum Chemistry Introduction to physical chemistry with primary emphasis on molecular structure, spectroscopy, and chemical kinetics.  Graduate credit not allowed for student majoring in BioChemistry, Chemistry, or Chemical Engineering.
Chemistry^Experimental Physical Chemistry Experimental Physical Chemistry Laboratory experiments designed to illustrate the principles of physical chemistry and teach techniques of error analysis and the presentation of quantitative data.  Graduate credit not allowed for student majoring in BioChemistry, Chemistry, or Chemical Engineering.
Chemistry^Advanced Experimental Physical Chemistry Advanced Experimental Physical Chemistry Laboratory experiments and projects for students interested in advanced study in physical chemistry.
Chemistry^Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics Introduction to chemical kinetics and molecular dynamics.
Chemistry^Molecular Thermodynamics Molecular Thermodynamics Introduction to physical chemistry with a primary emphasis on the statistical and molecular interpretation of thermodynamics.
Chemistry^General Biochemistry I General Biochemistry I Basic structure and function of cellular components; principles of enzyme kinetics and regulation.
Chemistry^Organic Synthesis Organic Synthesis Theory and methodology of organic synthesis applied to complex organic molecules.
Chemistry^Biological Chemistry Biological Chemistry Fundamentals of Biochemistry for Chemists. Students cannot receive credit for both CHEM 476 and B M B 401.
Chemistry^Chemical Research Chemical Research Experimental investigation of an original research problem. Preparation of a formal thesis is optional.
Chemistry^Chemical Research Chemical Research Experimental investigation of an original research problem. Preparation of a formal thesis is optional.
Chemistry^BET IOD Analogs BET IOD Analogs Extraction and purification of botulin from white birch bark followed by its modification to generate new iodinated products.
Business Law^B B No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Public Health^H H No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Philosophy^Basic Problems of Philosophy Basic Problems of Philosophy Introduction to central philosophical themes, including the mind/body problem, the existence of God, ethical problems, the nature of reality. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from PHIL 001 GH or 004 GH.
Philosophy^Philosophy, Politics, and Social Theory Philosophy, Politics, and Social Theory Examines relations between political and social organizations, the justification and limits of the state, and issues concerning individuality and community.
Philosophy^Persons, Moral Values and the Good Life Persons, Moral Values and the Good Life Major ethical positions and assumptions regarding questions of freedom, choice, obligation, and conflicts in contemporary moral conduct, values, and reasoning.
Philosophy^Philosophy, Art, and Film Philosophy, Art, and Film Explores relations between images and reality, representation and culture, and beauty and politics through film, artworks, and aesthetic theories.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Literature in Western Culture Philosophy and Literature in Western Culture Explores fundamental issues of human existence through the traditions of western literature and philosophy.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Literature in Western Culture Philosophy and Literature in Western Culture Explores fundamental issues of human existence through the traditions of western literature and philosophy.
Philosophy^Asian Philosophy Asian Philosophy Introduction to philosophical, moral, and aesthetic teachings of Asian traditions such as Hinduism, Buddhism , Taoism, Confucianism, and Shintoism.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Feminism Philosophy and Feminism Explores diverse feminist philosophies of culture and knowledge, and examines gender's role in accounts of reality, truth, morality, and justice.
Philosophy^Philosophy, Race, and Diversity Philosophy, Race, and Diversity Critically examines the significance of race and cultural diversity for, and in, understandings of reality, knowledge, truth, morality, and justice.
Philosophy^Critical Thinking Critical Thinking Discussion of the validity, soundness, and fallacies of everyday language use and reasoning; informal logic; and manipulative arguments and propaganda.
Philosophy^Critical Thinking Critical Thinking Discussion of the validity, soundness, and fallacies of everyday language use and reasoning; informal logic; and manipulative arguments and propaganda.
Philosophy^Philosophy, Science, and Truth Philosophy, Science, and Truth Examines the philosophical foundations of natural scientific inquiry, knowledge, objectivity, and the relation of scientific truth to common sense.
Philosophy^Symbolic Logic Symbolic Logic Formal logical structures of propositions and arguments; mechanical tests and proof techniques for logically necessary truth and deductive validity.
Philosophy^Philosophy, Nature, and the Environment Philosophy, Nature, and the Environment Studies competing historical and contemporary conceptions of nature, their philosophical foundations, and their implications for environmental problems and public policy.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Love and Sex Philosophy of Love and Sex Explores Western theories and attitudes concerning intimacy and examines various ethical issues involving love and sex.
Philosophy^First-Year Seminar in Philosophy First-Year Seminar in Philosophy Critical introduction to philosophical issues in ethics, social and political theory, religion, art, metaphysics, and epistemology.
Philosophy^The Meaning of Human Existence The Meaning of Human Existence Explores differing views of the significance of human life, the meaning of freedom, and the way to a meaningful life.
Philosophy^Pragmatism and American Philosophy Pragmatism and American Philosophy An introduction to American thought and its relation to American culture, with a focus on the development of pragmatism.
Philosophy^Existentialism and European Philosophy Existentialism and European Philosophy Introduction to European philosophy and issues of life, death, meaning, and absurdity, with a focus on existentialism and its development.
Philosophy^Introduction to Ethics Introduction to Ethics Ethical theory about virtue, duty, autonomy, and life quality applied to moral problems, including character, violence, oppression, abortion, and suicide.
Philosophy^Introduction to Ethics Introduction to Ethics Ethical theory about virtue, duty, autonomy, and life quality applied to moral problems, including character, violence, oppression, abortion, and suicide.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Law and Legal Ethics Introduction to Philosophy of Law and Legal Ethics Historical and contemporary philosophies of law; concepts of responsibility, property, rights, and justice; and ethical issues in legal practice.
Philosophy^Introduction to Business Ethics Introduction to Business Ethics Studies ethical foundations of business and ethical problems in business practices such as advertising, international trade, labor relations, and marketing.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Technology Introduction to Philosophy of Technology The character of technology; its relation to human values; philosophical assumptions in its development; and how it transforms the world.
Philosophy^Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy Critical introduction to political authority, rights, justice, community, inequality, power, pluralism, and other contemporary, social, and political issues.
Philosophy^Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy Critical introduction to political authority, rights, justice, community, inequality, power, pluralism, and other contemporary, social, and political issues.
Philosophy^Introduction to Aesthetics Introduction to Aesthetics Examines the nature of art and aesthetic experience, art's relation to beauty and truth, and the nature of creativity.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Science Introduction to Philosophy of Science Examines science's assumptions about knowledge and reality, the relation between science and culture, and the nature of scientific progress.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Science Introduction to Philosophy of Science Examines science's assumptions about knowledge and reality, the relation between science and culture, and the nature of scientific progress.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Literature Introduction to Philosophy of Literature Examines philosophical ideas in literature, literary forms in philosophies, style and genre, and relation of philosophy, literature, writing, and culture.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Literature Introduction to Philosophy of Literature Examines philosophical ideas in literature, literary forms in philosophies, style and genre, and relation of philosophy, literature, writing, and culture.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy and Education Introduction to Philosophy and Education Examines the nature and goals of education, the philosophical foundations of educational theories, and their economic, political, and cultural implications.
Philosophy^Introduction to Environmental Philosophy Introduction to Environmental Philosophy Considers the moral status of the environment and applies ethical theory to issues such as preservation, hunger, pollution, and sustainability.
Philosophy^Introduction to Environmental Philosophy Introduction to Environmental Philosophy Considers the moral status of the environment and applies ethical theory to issues such as preservation, hunger, pollution, and sustainability.
Philosophy^Ethical Leadership Ethical Leadership Introduction to philosophical theories of ethics and leadership. Uses literary and biographical texts in developing skills of application.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of History Introduction to Philosophy of History Examines methodological foundations and interpretations of history, the objectivity of history, and the issue of history as design or chance.
Philosophy^Introduction to Ethics in Media and Journalism Introduction to Ethics in Media and Journalism Studies ethical problems, human values, and politics in differing media forms and the ways media shape such problems and values.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Religion Introduction to Philosophy of Religion Explores the meaning of religious belief and experience, the existence of God, ideas of spirituality, and the question of immortality.
Philosophy^Introduction to Theories of Knowledge Introduction to Theories of Knowledge Historical and contemporary views on the foundations and conditions of knowledge, belief, justification, and truth, conception, perception, and interpretation.
Philosophy^Introduction to Theories of Knowledge Introduction to Theories of Knowledge Historical and contemporary views on the foundations and conditions of knowledge, belief, justification, and truth, conception, perception, and interpretation.
Philosophy^Introduction to Metaphysics Introduction to Metaphysics Explores the nature of being and reality, the problem of free will and the mind/body problem, identity, and causality.
Philosophy^Introduction to Metaphysics Introduction to Metaphysics Explores the nature of being and reality, the problem of free will and the mind/body problem, identity, and causality.
Philosophy^Introduction to Metaphysics Introduction to Metaphysics Explores the nature of being and reality, the problem of free will and the mind/body problem, identity, and causality.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Mind Introduction to Philosophy of Mind Problems and concepts of mind and consciousness including mind-brain identification, the nature of subjectivity, identity, and artificial intelligence.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Language Introduction to Philosophy of Language Studies the nature of meaning in language, how we acquire language, communication, signs, and language as descriptive of reality.
Philosophy^Introduction to Bioethics Introduction to Bioethics Studies questions of ethics in relation to biotechnology research and implementation, genetic engineering, medicine, animal and human rights.
Philosophy^Foreign Study--Philosophy Foreign Study--Philosophy Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Philosophy^Ancient Philosophy Ancient Philosophy Examines the thought and influence of major Western thinkers from the pre-Socratics to the neo-Platonists, emphasizing Plato and Aristotle.
Philosophy^Ancient Philosophy Ancient Philosophy Examines the thought and influence of major Western thinkers from the pre-Socratics to the neo-Platonists, emphasizing Plato and Aristotle.
Philosophy^Medieval Philosophy Medieval Philosophy Examines the thought and influence of major Western thinkers from the fourth to the fifteenth centuries, emphasizing Augustine and Aquinas.
Philosophy^Modern Philosophy Modern Philosophy Examines the thought and influence of major Western thinkers from Descartes to Kant, emphasizing rationalism and empiricism, and critical philosophy.
Philosophy^Nineteenth Century Philosophy Nineteenth Century Philosophy Examines the thought and influence of major Western thinkers from Hegel to Nietzsche, including Marx, Kierkegaard, and Schopenhauer.
Philosophy^Twentieth Century Philosophy Twentieth Century Philosophy Examines the thought and influence of major Western thinkers of the century, including pragmatists, phenomenologists, existentialists, critical theorists, and feminists.
Philosophy^Contemporary Philosophy Contemporary Philosophy Recent trends in philosophical thought and culture, hybrid philosophies, and the philosophical landscape of the future.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Science Philosophy of Science An inquiry into the form and function of concepts, laws, theories, and into the character of scientific explanation and prediction.
Philosophy^Ethics and the Design of Technology Ethics and the Design of Technology Ethics and individual and group decision-making in the design of technology including design projects and specific attention to institutional ethics.
Philosophy^Food, Values, and Health Food, Values, and Health The perceived relatinship between food and health, emphasizing the conceptual nature of both; and how values contribute to the relationship.
Philosophy^Understanding the Obamas Understanding the Obamas Barack Hussein Obama's ascension to the U.S. presidency struck many people as evidence that an old era had ended and a new one was dawning. Many accounts of this historic shift quickly emerged, with Mr. Obama heralded as the prophet of everything from post-partisan politics to a post-imperial and, most famously, post-racial America. These conceptions of the Obama presidency as somehow bringing a phase of history to a close raise the questions that organize this course. Does the election of a black president mean that the US has become post-racial? Does the peculiar resistance to Michelle Obama undermine the claims of post-racialism? Does the election of this black president - a man who is in some ways as white or Asian as black, and who has no civil rights 'struggle credentials' - mean that the US politics and culture have entered a post-black or post-civil rights moment? Have the multiple global crises on Mr. Obama's plate made him our first post-imperial president?
Philosophy^Art in the Anthropocene Art in the Anthropocene This course will address questions of aesthetics and art practice in the current age, when humans are the primary force shaping the Earth.
Philosophy^Foreign Study--Philosophy Foreign Study--Philosophy Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Philosophy^American Philosophy American Philosophy Survey of key figures and movements in American thought including the Transcendentalists, the Pragmatists, and contemporary developments.
Philosophy^European Philosophy European Philosophy Survey of key figures and movements of Europe, including phenomenology, existentialism, structuralism and post-structuralism, and critical theory.
Philosophy^Environmental Ethics Environmental Ethics Examines ethical theories, justice, rights, community, and human values revolving around such issues as preservation, conservation, pollution, sustainability, and population.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Law Philosophy of Law Examines philosophical views of the nature of law, legal ethics, law and society through questions regarding definition, interpretation, and institutions.
Philosophy^Business Ethics Business Ethics Examines the moral justification of business practices and economic systems through critical analyses of case studies and applied ethical theories.
Philosophy^Technology and Human Values Technology and Human Values Interrelationships of twentieth-century technological change and human values. Emphasis on the social and ethical aspects of technological progress.
Philosophy^Social and Political Philosophy Social and Political Philosophy Historical and philosophical foundations of political organization, authority, and justice, and contemporary issues of rights, community, and culture.
Philosophy^Aesthetics Aesthetics Studies concepts of beauty, truth, value, representation, production and reproduction, and reality through philosophical theory and works of art.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Science Philosophy of Science Historical and contemporary foundational and methodological issues such as causality, relativity and epistemological relativism, teleology, and the nature of reality.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Literature Philosophy of Literature Discusses truth, belief, illusion, imagination and creativity through philosophical literature, as well as problems of philosophical writing.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Social Science Philosophy of Social Science Examines the philosophical nature and foundations of methodology, structures and objects, value-neutrality and objectivity in the social sciences.
Philosophy^Ethics Ethics Examines ethical theories, justice, rights, community, and human values revolving around such issues as preservation, conservation, pollution, sustainability, and population.
Philosophy^Ethics Ethics Examines ethical theories, justice, rights, community, and human values revolving around such issues as preservation, conservation, pollution, sustainability, and population.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Religion Philosophy of Religion Examines the relation between faith and reason, the nature of religious experience, the problem of evil, the existence of God.
Philosophy^Epistemology Epistemology The nature of cognition and perception, the conditions of experience, and the justification and truth of belief.
Philosophy^Metaphysics Metaphysics Examines the nature of reality, the existence of freedom, and the nature of matter, mind, and values.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mind Philosophy of Mind Investigates problems of mind from the standpoint of traditional metaphysical views, modern scientific psychology, neuroscience, and artificial intelligence.
Philosophy^Medical and Health Care Ethics Medical and Health Care Ethics Examines ethical, political, and social issues in the research, implementation, and practice of medicine, medical technologies, and healthcare.
Philosophy^Ethics in Science and Engineering Ethics in Science and Engineering Ethical issues arising in the practice of science and engineering and their philosophical analysis.
Philosophy^The Interrelation of Science, Philosophy, and Religion The Interrelation of Science, Philosophy, and Religion The historical and transformative interactions between science and Western philosophical and religious views of nature, humanity, and God.
Philosophy^World Philosophies and Cultures World Philosophies and Cultures Philosophical traditions, problems, and authors in African, Asian, Middle- Eastern, Native American, or other non-Western cultures and intellectual traditions.
Philosophy^Feminist Philosophy Feminist Philosophy Examines the central currents of feminist philosophy, selected problems and concepts regarding difference, gender and sex, identity, and political culture.
Philosophy^Asian Philosophies and Issues Asian Philosophies and Issues Exploration of the traditions, problems, and authors of one or more of the philosophical systems of Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism, and Confucianism.
Philosophy^Capstone Course in Philosophy Capstone Course in Philosophy This course is intended as the Capstone Course for Philosophy majors and is to be taken during their senior year or during the last semester of their junior year.
Philosophy^Topics in Ancient Philosophy Topics in Ancient Philosophy Examines the philosophy of central figures in ancient philosophy from the pre-Socratics to the post-Aristotelians and Neoplatonists.
Philosophy^Topics in Modern Philosophy Topics in Modern Philosophy Descartes to Kant, including mind and reality, space and time, God and nature, morality and autonomy.
Philosophy^Topics in Nineteenth Century Philosophy Topics in Nineteenth Century Philosophy Hegel to Nietzsche, including nature and spirit, history and human nature, ideology and morality.
Philosophy^Topics in Twentieth Century Philosophy Topics in Twentieth Century Philosophy Topics in the philosophy of figures such as Husseri, James, Russell, Wittgenstein, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, and Dewey.
Philosophy^Topics in Contemporary Philosophy Topics in Contemporary Philosophy Topics in the philosophy of contemporary figures such as Foucault, Habermas, Rorty, Derrida, Rawls, Davidson, and MacIntyre.
Philosophy^African American Philosophy African American Philosophy Major works by African American Philosophers, on topics of race, freedom, citizenship, nationhood, law and society.
Philosophy^Plato Plato Examines the metaphysics, epistemology, politics, aesthetics, and moral theory of this central figure in the history of philosophy.
Philosophy^Jewish Philosophy Jewish Philosophy Explores major figures and trends in Jewish philosophy and their influences on other philosophical traditions.
Philosophy^German Idealism German Idealism Critically examines the philosophy of central German idealists, including Kant, Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel, and its impact on later philosophy.
Philosophy^Kant Kant Critical examination of the metaphysics, epistemology, aesthetics, legal and moral philosophy, and influence of Immanuel Kant.
Philosophy^Hegel Hegel Critical examination of the metaphysics, moral theory, epistemology, and philosophy of history of this central figure of 19th-century philosophy.
Philosophy^Critical Theory Critical Theory Examines the ontology, political and social thought of the Frankfurt School from Horkheimer and Adorno to Marcuse and Habermas.
Philosophy^Heidegger Heidegger Studies Heidegger's metaphysical thought from his early to later works regarding being, history, subjectivity, aesthetics, language, and his influence.
Philosophy^Wittgenstein Wittgenstein Examines Wittgenstein's early and late work, including logical atomism, meaning, language games, forms of life, and the private-language argument.
Philosophy^Analytic Philosophy Analytic Philosophy Analytic philosophy's founding by Frege, Russell, Moore, Wittgenstein; and its contemporary development by Quine, Kripke, Dummett, and Davidson.
Philosophy^Dewey Dewey Critically examines the metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, logic, aesthetics, education theory, and social and political philosophy of this major American pragmatist.
Philosophy^Merleau-Ponty Merleau-Ponty Merleau-Ponty's phenomenological anti-dualism through his studies on the body and the flesh, aesthetics, political philosophy, and late ontology.
Philosophy^Phenomenology and Hermeneutics Phenomenology and Hermeneutics Studies major figures and issues in phenomenology and hermeneutics, focussing on the work of Husserl, Gadamer, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, and Levinas.
Philosophy^Ancient Democratic Theory Ancient Democratic Theory As the classical Greeks experimented in democracy and self-government, they experimented too in the best ways to think and talk about their political ideals, realities, and tragedies. We are fortunate to have their speeches, treaties, and plays most characterized by rhetorical vigor, philosophical frankness, and comic irony. Our work will be to read broadly in the Athenian literature about the earliest world-historical democracy, notably Thuydides, Aristophanes, Plato, Isocrates, and Aristotle, and to focus on their reflections on gender, class, slavery, education, deliberation, persuasion, freedom of speech, and self-improvement. We aim to discover  what the anicents deemed "democracy,"  what they treated as most puzzling about democracy in theory or practice,  what modes of discussion and argument proved most productive or delibilitating, and  what about human nature and social life justifies-if it does-any form of democracy, in the ancient period.
Philosophy^Foreign Study--Philosophy Foreign Study--Philosophy Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Biology^Preparation Skills for Success in Biology and Life Sciences Preparation Skills for Success in Biology and Life Sciences A foundation course that emphasizes study skills and reviews basic biological, chemistry and mathematical principles.
Biology^Peer Learning in Biology Peer Learning in Biology Group and learning skills to facilitate the understanding of complex biological processes.
Biology^Introductory Biology I Introductory Biology I An introduction to fundamental biological topics  for non-majors biology-related fields.
Biology^Introductory Biology II Introductory Biology II Laboratory exercises demonstrating principles of biology.
Biology^Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity A study of the evolution of the major groups of organisms including the fundamental concepts of biology.
Biology^Honors Biology: Basic Concepts and Biodiversity Honors Biology: Basic Concepts and Biodiversity Honors study of the evolution of the major groups of organisms including the fundamental concepts of biology.
Biology^Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity A study of the evolution of the major groups of organisms including the fundamental concepts of biology.
Biology^Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity A study of the evolution of the major groups of organisms including the fundamental concepts of biology.
Biology^Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity Biology:  Basic Concepts and Biodiversity A study of the evolution of the major groups of organisms including the fundamental concepts of biology. This course also fulfills the First-Year Seminar requirements.
Biology^Plants, Places, and People Plants, Places, and People Useful and dangerous plants; historical , cultural , and economic  aspects, including structural and chemical characteristics of botanical importance. Students who have passed BIOL  424 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Plants, Places, and People Plants, Places, and People Useful and dangerous plants; historical , cultural , and economic  aspects, including structural and chemical characteristics of botanical importance. Students who have passed BIOL  424 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Introduction to Plant Biology Introduction to Plant Biology Cellular structure and organization; physiological processes; classification; reproduction and development; relationship of plant groups. Students who have passed BIOL 240W may not schedule this course.
Biology^Mammalian Anatomy Mammalian Anatomy Anatomy of a mammal, with special reference to that of man. Students who have passed BIOL 421 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Mammalian Anatomy Mammalian Anatomy Anatomy of a mammal, with special reference to that of man. Students who have passed BIOL 421 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Mammalian Anatomy Mammalian Anatomy Anatomy of a mammal, with special reference to that of man. Students who have passed BIOL 421 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Genetics and Evolution of the Human Species Genetics and Evolution of the Human Species Human heredity and evolution, individual and social implications. The course is for non-majors; students who have passed BIOL 222, 230W, B M B 251 or any upper-division biology course may not schedule this course.
Biology^Introductory Physiology Introductory Physiology Explanation of the normal structure and function of the animal body, with special emphasis on human body systems. Students who have passed BIOL 472 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Physiology Laboratory Physiology Laboratory Experiments demonstrating basic physiological principles, with special reference to man.
Biology^Introduction to the Biology of Aging Introduction to the Biology of Aging Examination of human aging from a biological perspective. Population demographics, physiological and pathological changes, and healthy lifestyles are discussed. Students who have passed BIOL 409 may not schedule this course.
Biology^Biology of Sex Biology of Sex Basic structure and function of the human reproductive system. Physiology of gametogenesis, fertilization, contraception, gestation, parturition, lactation, and sexual behavior.
Biology^Introduction to Pharmacological Concepts Introduction to Pharmacological Concepts Presents basic concepts of pharmacology; includes major drug classifications, pharmaceutical preparations, and biological implications relevant to these therapeutic agents.
Biology^Honors Biology: Populations and Communities Honors Biology: Populations and Communities Honors study of the major physical, chemical, and biological factors constituting environment and their dynamic interaction with organisms forming ecosystems.
Biology^Biology:  Populations and Communities Biology:  Populations and Communities A study of the structures and functions of organismic interactions from simple populations to complex ecosystems.  BIOL 220W GN, 230W GN, and 240W GN each carry only 1 credit to "Writing"; all three courses must be taken to meet the W requirement.
Biology^Genetics Genetics Variation and heredity in plants and animals, including man; relationships of genetical knowledge to evolution and breeding practices.
Biology^Laboratory in Genetics Laboratory in Genetics Principles of genetics illustrated with Drosophila breeding experiments and with demonstrations of plant and animal materials.
Biology^Honors Biology: Molecules and Cells Honors Biology: Molecules and Cells Honors study of cellular phenomena including molecular genetics and metabolic interactions.
Biology^Biology:  Molecules and Cells Biology:  Molecules and Cells A study of cellular phenomena including molecular genetics and metabolic interactions.  BIOL 220W GN, 230W GN, and 240W GN each carry only 1 credit to "Writing"; all three courses must be taken to meet the W requirement.
Biology^Honors Biology: Function and Development of Organisms Honors Biology: Function and Development of Organisms Honors study of development and physiological processes at the organismic level.
Biology^Biology:  Function and Development of Organisms Biology:  Function and Development of Organisms A study of development and physiological processes at the organismic level.  BIOL 220W GN, 230W GN, and 240W GN each carry only 1 credit to "Writing"; all three courses must be taken to meet the W requirement.
Biology^Peer Leadership in Biology Peer Leadership in Biology Leadership training in guiding others to learn, communicate, and apply biological principles.
Biology^Investigation and Growth of Herbaceous Annual Plants Investigation and Growth of Herbaceous Annual Plants Designed for select students interested in learning more about greenhouse propagation techniques. Students will investigate the choice, planting, culture, propagation of annual plants in the greenhouse, and submit weekly written reports of their research.
Biology^Laboratory Teaching Experience in Biology Laboratory Teaching Experience in Biology This course concentrates on the various philosophies and methods of teaching anatomy at the college level. Special emphasis is placed on inquiry learning and diversity of classroom environments. Techniques of preparing student objectives will be discussed. The course is designed to give the student practice in planning and presenting lectures, lecture demonstrations, and lab investigations.
Biology^Conservation Biology and Sustainability of Select Tropical Ecosystems Conservation Biology and Sustainability of Select Tropical Ecosystems Through innovative online instruction during the late spring semester, 2014, all participants will engage in learning opportunities and lessons which will enhance their pre-field-trip knowledge in the following content areas: the biodiversity of the ecosystems to be explored ; the research behind the conservation of these ecosystems; the natural history and plight of sea turtle populations worldwide; the conservation and scientific work of two non-governmental organizations  - Organization of Tropical Studies/La Selva and WIDECAST; and the geography, culture, government, educational and environmental policies, and indigenous people of Costa Rica and Panama.
Biology^Field Practicum in Costa Rica and Panama Field Practicum in Costa Rica and Panama The two and one-half week field summer practicum  will provide real-world research and conservation experiences - that are chaperoned by Organization of Tropical Studies /La Selva field-based scientists - which focus on tropical rain forest ecosystem biodiversity and dynamics. As participants progress through the program they will also learn how conservation efforts and scientific research are key components to solving the global challenges of sustainability. A highlight of this embedded field course will be working with nesting sea turtles and hatchlings along with members of WIDECAST, an expert network of biologists, managers, community leaders and educators in more than 40 nations and territories committed to an integrated, regional capacity that ensures the recovery and sustainable management of depleted sea turtel populations, so as to help sustain these endangered animals.
Biology^Current Trends in Bipolar Disorder Research Current Trends in Bipolar Disorder Research To learn more about bipolar disorder and, in particular, about established and experimental treatment protocols.
Biology^Health Care Issues Reading Semniar Health Care Issues Reading Semniar Reading Seminar for students with an interest in the health professions. Enrollment limited to students with at least 2nd semester standing and approval of the instructor. This course is designed to encourage reading, critical evaluation, reflection, and discussion using historical and current issues in the health professions. Students will read books, journal articles and news articles relevant to health care issues. They will be required to attend and participate in weekly 50 minute class discussions.
Biology^Integrative Pharmacology Integrative Pharmacology Review the basic concepts of pharmacology and relate these concepts to the pathophysiological changes associated with the disease state.
Biology^Intro to Pathophysiological Concepts Intro to Pathophysiological Concepts Covers the alteration of basic physiological processes associated with the disease state.
Biology^Exploring Innovative Ideas Through TED Talks Exploring Innovative Ideas Through TED Talks Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject which may be topical or of special interest.
Biology^Genetic Analysis Genetic Analysis A discussion of the mechanisms of heredity in prokaryotes and eukaryotes with emphasis on analysis and modes of inference.
Biology^Teaching in Biology Teaching in Biology This course will train biology teaching assistants to teach in the laboratory/ recitation setting with emphasis on critical thinking skills. Enrollment will be limited to students of at least fifth semester standing that have been accepted as teaching assistants for biology.
Biology^Biological Experimental Design Biological Experimental Design Discussion of experimental design, analysis and presentation, with a practicum providing for student design, analysis and presentation of biological experiments. Students may not take this course if they have taken BIOBD 350W.
Biology^Cellular Mechanisms in Vertebrate Physiology Cellular Mechanisms in Vertebrate Physiology This course considers cellular mechanisms governing physiological aspects of vertebrate cell signaling and their adaptation to particular organismal functions.
Biology^Molecular Evolution Molecular Evolution Introduction to concepts and techniques of analysis of molecular sequence data from an evolutionary point of view.
Biology^Symbiosis Symbiosis This course covers a variety of different types of symbiotic relationships between unicellular symbionts and plants, fungi, or animals.
Biology^Plant Developmental Anatomy Plant Developmental Anatomy This course will examine the development of basic vascular plant anatomical structures including leaves, stems, roots, and flowers.
Biology^Biology of Aging Biology of Aging Mechanisms of the aging process, with special reference to man. Unfavorable progressive changes in molecules, cells, systems, and organisms.
Biology^Medical Embryology Medical Embryology Develops an understanding of human reproductive physiology, embryological processes, their time frames, and the development of major human body systems. The course emphasizes clinical correlations and the medical consequences of developmental abnormalities.
Biology^Ecology of Infectious Diseases Ecology of Infectious Diseases This course examines how ecological processes impact upon the epidemiology of infectious diseases.
Biology^Cell Signaling and Regulation Cell Signaling and Regulation Introduction to the themes of cellular signaling and regulation through critical review of primary literature.
Biology^Taxonomy of Seed Plants Taxonomy of Seed Plants Basic principles and procedures in the practice of angiosperm systematics.
Biology^Ecotoxicology Ecotoxicology Major concepts and controversies in the interdisciplinary field of ecological toxicology; toxicity analysis, remediation, and case studies of environmental pollution.
Biology^Biology of Cancer Biology of Cancer This course intends to illustrate biological basis of cancer development, and discusses aspects on prevention, detection, and treatment of cancer.
Biology^Invertebrate Zoology Invertebrate Zoology Function and form of major invertebrate phyla.
Biology^Ecological and Environmental Problem Solving Ecological and Environmental Problem Solving Overview of processes involved in solving environmental problems. Provides students with toolkit for understanding ecological and environmental problems.
Biology^Paleobotany Paleobotany Classification, morphology, phylogeny, and stratigraphic occurrence of fossil plants; practicum includes field trips and study of paleobotanical techniques and specimens.
Biology^Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates The comparative anatomy of representative vertebrate animals discussed from a descriptive and an evolutionary viewpoint.
Biology^Advanced Genetics Advanced Genetics Chromosomal mechanism of heredity; cytoplasmic and polygenic inheritance, chemical genetics, genomics, and experimental evolution.
Biology^Seeds of Change:  The Uses of Plants Seeds of Change:  The Uses of Plants Interdisciplinary approach to the biology, chemistry, history, and culture of the interactions between plants and people.
Biology^Biology of Fungi Biology of Fungi A survey of the biological diversity of fungi, stressing evolution, ecololgy, disease, morphology, life histories, and importance to human affairs.
Biology^Developmental Neurobiology Developmental Neurobiology Overview of basic developmental processes as they apply to the central nervous system.
Biology^Evolution Evolution Selected topics on the evolution of life.
Biology^Population Genetics Population Genetics Mathematical formulation of evolution by natural selection, genetic equilibrium under selection, mutation, migration, random drift.
Biology^Animal Behavior Animal Behavior Physiological mechanisms, ecological relevance, and adaptive significance of animal behavior.
Biology^Developmental Biology Developmental Biology Molecular and genetic analyses of mechanisms involved in differentiation and determination in biological systems.
Biology^Reproductive Biology Reproductive Biology Reproduction is essential to all life and the course will explore development, physiology, cell biology, genetic and evolutionary aspects of this area.
Biology^Developmental Genetics Developmental Genetics An advanced course in developmental biology, focusing on the use of genetics techniques to study fundamental questions of animal development.
Biology^Evolution of Vertebrates Evolution of Vertebrates Evolution of vertebrate animals, including classification systems based upon morphology and genetics, insights for special adaptations.
Biology^Pathobiology of Emerging Infectious Disease Pathobiology of Emerging Infectious Disease The course will analyze the pathology, immunology, microbiology, evolutionary biology, and policy of important emerging and reemerging infectious diseases.
Biology^Ecology of Lakes and Streams Ecology of Lakes and Streams Physical, chemical, and biological characteristics of freshwater environments, with special emphasis on factors regulating productivity in freshwater ecosystems.
Biology^Population Ecology and Global Climate Change Population Ecology and Global Climate Change Ecological responses of individuals, populations, and communities to environmental variation, with emphasis on climate change.
Biology^Histology Histology Microscopic structure of the tissue of the animal body.
Biology^Theoretical Population Ecology Theoretical Population Ecology Theoretical discussions of demographics, population and metapopulation growth models, life histories, and species interactions such as competition, predation, host-parasitoid relationships.
Biology^Practical Bioinformatics Practical Bioinformatics Practical aspects of retrieving and analyzing biological information residing in common databases.
Biology^Plant Physiology Plant Physiology Classical and current concepts in plant constituents, mineral nutrition, water relations, respiration, photosynthesis, photoperiodism, plant hormones, growth, and development.
Biology^Evo-devo: Evolution of Developmental Mechanisms Evo-devo: Evolution of Developmental Mechanisms How evolution of animals and plants can be traced to changes in the regulation and/or interactions of genes controlling development.
Biology^Field Ecology Field Ecology This field course will explore the flora and fauna of the mid-Atlantic area.
Biology^Physiological Ecology Physiological Ecology The physiological abilities of plants and animals to adapt to their abiotic environment.
Biology^Ecology of Plant Reproduction Ecology of Plant Reproduction Analysis of the ecology, evolution, and natural history of angiosperm reproduction, including pollination, fruit-set, dispersal, and relevant plant- animal interactions.
Biology^Experimental Field Biology Experimental Field Biology A practical introduction to modern experimental techniques for ecological study of terrestrial, marine, and fresh water habitats.
Biology^Biology of RNA Biology of RNA Survey of the roles of RNA in biology, emphasizing evolutionary relationships and relevance to human health.
Biology^Plant Tissue Culture and Biotechnology Plant Tissue Culture and Biotechnology Principles and techniques for the in vitro culture, propagation, and genetic manipulations of plant cells.
Biology^Human Genetics Human Genetics The human genome, its variation, origins, and relation to disease and other traits.
Biology^Human Genetics Human Genetics The human genome, its variation, origins, and relation to disease and other traits.
Biology^Human Genetics Human Genetics Gene mapping in humans; molecular basis of genetic disease; gnomic structure; immunogenetics; and genetic evidence for human evolutionary history.
Biology^Contemporary Issues in Science and Medicine Contemporary Issues in Science and Medicine Current/classical issues relating to health, research, agriculture, environment, and biotechnology. Active exploration of the impact of science on society.
Biology^General Ecology General Ecology Illustrates science of ecology, from individual, population, and community- level perspectives, discusses applications of this science to issues of conservation of biodiversity.
Biology^Sociobiology Sociobiology The study of the adaptive function of social behavior, the comparative analysis of social organization, and the ecology of sociality.
Biology^Molecular Basis of Neurological Diseases Molecular Basis of Neurological Diseases Students taking this course will learn about neurological diseases in a biological molecular context.
Biology^Neurobiology Neurobiology Comprehensive examination of neuroanatomy and physiology designed to integrate the principles of neurochemistry, neuroendocrinology, and molecular biology.
Biology^Functional and Integrative Neurosciences Functional and Integrative Neurosciences Neurobiological function in motivated behaviors, motor and sensory functions, learning and memory development, sexual differentiation, and pathology.
Biology^Mammalian Physiology Mammalian Physiology Mechanisms concerned with normal animal function, with special emphasis on humans.
Biology^Laboratory in Mammalian Physiology Laboratory in Mammalian Physiology Laboratory experiments demonstrating fundamentals in physiology.
Biology^Astrobiology Astrobiology In depth treatment of principles/concepts of biochemical evolution, the origin/evolution of life; evaluation of distribution of life in the universe.
Biology^General Endocrinology General Endocrinology Endocrine mechanisms regulating the morphogenesis, homeostasis, and functional integration of animals.
Biology^Coastal Biology Coastal Biology Marine organisms, their interactions with each other, and their relationships with several coastal habitats.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Biology Senior Seminar in Biology Discussion of selected topics from recent biological literature; reports on current research or internship experiences.
Biology^Internship in Biology Internship in Biology Practical off-campus experience in Biology under the supervision of a professional and a faculty member.
Biology^Deer Exclosure Effects on Small Mammals and Soil Invertebrates Deer Exclosure Effects on Small Mammals and Soil Invertebrates Research experience in small mammal and soil invertebrate. Goal of the course is to provide research experience in community ecology.
Biology^Conservation Biology and Sustainability of Select Tropical Ecosystems Conservation Biology and Sustainability of Select Tropical Ecosystems Through innovative online instruction during the late spring semester, 2014, all participants will engage in learning opportunities and lessons which will enhance their pre-field-trip knowledge in the following content areas: the biodiversity of the ecosystems to be explored ; the research behind the conservation of these ecosystems; the natural history and plight of sea turtle populations worldwide; the conservation and scientific work of two non-governmental organizations  - Organization of Tropical Studies/La Selva and WIDECAST; and, the geography, culture, government, educational and environmental policies, and indigenous people of Costa Rica and Panama.
Biology^Field Practicum in Costa Rica and Panama Field Practicum in Costa Rica and Panama The two and one-half week field summer practicum  will provide real-world research and conservation experiences - that are chaperoned by Organization of Tropical Studies /La Selva field-based scientists - which focus on tropical rain forest ecosystem biodiversity and dynamics. As participants progress through the program they will also learn how conservation efforts and scientific research are key components to solving the global challenges of sustainability. A highlight of this embedded field course will be working with nesting sea turtles and hatchings along with members of WIDECAST, an expert network of biologists, managers, community leaders and educators in more than 40 nations and territories committed to an integrated, regional capacity that ensures the recovery and sustainable management of depleted sea turtle populations, so as to help sustain these endangered animals.
Biology^Influence on Gender in Science Education Influence on Gender in Science Education An independent research project focusing on a qualitative study of the education of children  with emphasis on attitudes toward science.
Biology^COI Sequence Variation in Lutzomyia Vexator COI Sequence Variation in Lutzomyia Vexator An examination of COI sequence variation for 45 Lutzomyia vexator specimens from 3 states.
Biology^China's Water Realities and Sustainabile Solutions China's Water Realities and Sustainabile Solutions The 2015 CHANCE China program consists of the following courses: BIOL 496 or C E 497 - China's Water Realities and Sustainable Solutions  and BIOL 496 or C E 497 - A Field Practicum in China 497. Taken together, but sequentially, these courses will allow undergraduate and graduate students to earn credits and hours in biology or civil engineering that will prepare them to beter understand, and seek solutions for, the global challenges that individuals and governments face in managing local, state , national, and global fresh water use for a sustainable future. To do this, both courses create unique learning environments which immerse participants, undergraduate students, in real-world exploration, research, and conservation efforts using inquiry-based strengths and interdisciplinary approaches.
Biology^A Field Practicum in China A Field Practicum in China The 2015 CHANCE China program consists of the following courses: BIOL 496 or C E 497 - China's Water Realities and Sustainable Solutions  and BIOL 496 or C E 497 - A Field Practicum in China . Taken together, but sequentially, these courses will allow undergraduate and graduate students to earn credits and hours in biology or civil engineering that will prepare them to better understand, and seek solutions for, the global challenges that individuals and governments face in managing local, state , national, and global fresh water use for a sustainable future. To do this, both courses create unique learning environments which immerse participants, undergraduate students, in real-world exploration, research, and conservation efforts using inquiry-based strategies and interdisciplinary approaches.
Biology^Networks in Life Science Networks in Life Science Introduction of networks analysis and modeling techniques applied to molecular and cellular-level interaction networks.
Biology^Biological Oceanography Biological Oceanography This course will expose students to the wide range of organisms, from microbes to animals, living in the open ocean. Topics covered include how organisms survivie in aquatic environments, their physiology, ecology and evolution. We will discuss how life in the ocean is affected by depth range from the shallow photic zone to the deep seafloor as well as by ocean currents and continents. You will also learn about biological-physical interactions and the different methodological approaches to study biological oceanography.
Biology^Comparative Neuroanatomy Comparative Neuroanatomy Structural-functional organization of the central nervous system of primates and other vertebrates. Emphasis is placed on understanding the anatomical structure of the major neural systems and the evolutionary principles that guided their phylogenetic development in different vertebrate lineages.
Biology^Analysis of Biological Data Analysis of Biological Data Biological stories intrigue us, and we commonly encounter surprising conclusions, such as "cats falling from greater than nine stories sustain fewer injuries", "regular aspirin use prevents cancer", "brown recluse spiders prefer to eat dead crickets", or "jet lag can be prevented by exposing the back of the knee to light". What are the data that support these claims? How are they evaluated and presented? At the center of biological research is the collection, analysis, and presentation of data. We will explore this process through the examination of studies published in different fields of biology. Students who have successfully complete this course will have a broad understanding of the types of data that biologists collect, how these data are analyzed, including the application of different statistical tests and determination of the significance of results, and how results from these studies are interpreted and presented.
Biology^Tropical Field Ecology Tropical Field Ecology An intensive introduction to tropical biodiversity to be taught in Belize, Central America.
Psychology^First-Year Seminar in Psychology First-Year Seminar in Psychology Scientific, societal, and individual implications of contemporary psychological theory.
Psychology^Introductory Psychology Introductory Psychology Introduction to general psychology; principles of human behavior and their applications.
Psychology^Introductory Psychology Introductory Psychology Introduction to general psychology; principles of human behavior and their applications.
Psychology^Introductory Psychology Introductory Psychology Introduction to general psychology; principles of human behavior and their applications.
Psychology^Introductory Psychology Introductory Psychology Introduction to general psychology; principles of human behavior and their applications.
Psychology^Psychology as a Science and Profession Psychology as a Science and Profession Overview of history and methods of psychology as a science and profession; applications and ethical issues in psychology.
Psychology^Elementary Statistics in Psychology Elementary Statistics in Psychology Frequency distributions and graphs; measures of central tendency and variability; normal probability curve; elementary sampling and reliability; correlations; simple regression equations.
Psychology^Introduction to Developmental Psychology Introduction to Developmental Psychology Developmental principles; physical growth; linguistic, intellectual, emotional, and social development from infancy to maturity.
Psychology^Introduction to Developmental Psychology Introduction to Developmental Psychology Developmental principles; physical growth; linguistic, intellectual, emotional, and social development from infancy to maturity.
Psychology^Introduction to Developmental Psychology Introduction to Developmental Psychology Developmental principles; physical growth; linguistic, intellectual, emotional, and social development from infancy to maturity.
Psychology^Introduction to Social Psychology Introduction to Social Psychology Research and theory on topics including interpersonal attraction, aggression, helping, attitudes, attribution, cooperation, competition, and groups, from a psychological perspective.
Psychology^Introduction to Psychologies of Religion Introduction to Psychologies of Religion Introduction to major Western psychologies of religion  and to subsequent extensions of and departures from them.
Psychology^Introduction to the Psychology of Gender Introduction to the Psychology of Gender Psychological study of gender in historical and contemporary perspective. Role of gender in development, self-concept, social relations, and mental health.
Psychology^Cross-Cultural Psychology Cross-Cultural Psychology This course examines how ethnic and cultural background influences patterns of human thought and behavior.
Psychology^Introduction to Personality Psychology Introduction to Personality Psychology Past and recent conceptualizations of key issues and root ideas of personality psychology.
Psychology^Introduction to Well-being and Positive Psychology Introduction to Well-being and Positive Psychology Applying psychological knowledge to develop and maintain effective personal adjustment and well-being and positive social relations.
Psychology^Introduction to the Psychology of Human Factors Engineering Introduction to the Psychology of Human Factors Engineering Introductory course in engineering/human factors psychology, emphasizing the application of core psychological principles and research to designing products and systems.
Psychology^Introduction to Psychology of Perception Introduction to Psychology of Perception Survey of human perception and processing of perceptual information, with some reference to animal literature. Emphasizes vision and audition.
Psychology^Introduction to Cognitive Psychology Introduction to Cognitive Psychology Introduction to study of such higher mental processes as thinking and reasoning, imagery, concept formation, problem solving, and skilled performance.
Psychology^Neurological Bases of Human Behavior Neurological Bases of Human Behavior An introduction to biopsychology, emphasizing the structure and function of the human brain.
Psychology^Neurological Bases of Human Behavior Neurological Bases of Human Behavior An introduction to biopsychology, emphasizing the structure and function of the human brain. Students may take only one course for credit from PSY 203 and PSY 203A.
Psychology^Introduction to Psychology of Learning Introduction to Psychology of Learning A general survey of the learning area, including animal and human experiments, with the applicability of learning principles being discussed.
Psychology^Animal Minds Animal Minds This course considers the cognitive and communicative abilities of animals, especially primates, as compared with humans.
Psychology^Evolutionary Psychology Evolutionary Psychology Survey of evolutionary perspectives in current psychological research.
Psychology^Introduction to Abnormal Psychology Introduction to Abnormal Psychology Overview of assessment, causes, and treatments of psychological disorders.
Psychology^Introduction to Abnormal Psychology Introduction to Abnormal Psychology Overview of assessment, causes, and treatments of psychological disorders.
Psychology^Introduction to Industrial-Organizational Psychology Introduction to Industrial-Organizational Psychology Personnel selection, training, accident prevention, morale, and organizational behavior.
Psychology^Inter-Cultural Assessments of Undergraduate Student Attitudes and Beliefs Inter-Cultural Assessments of Undergraduate Student Attitudes and Beliefs Introduces students to short assessment tools and techniques that address dimensions of personal and social functioning, such as the self-concept, relationship satisfaction, and self-control.
Psychology^Social Psychology in our Lives Social Psychology in our Lives This course will examine various topics in social psychology and how they apply in a real world setting. The course will be mostly seminar, with regular readings and written assignments.
Psychology^Introduction to Music Therapy Introduction to Music Therapy Introductory course in music therapy to study the populations served by this form of therapy and its basic techniques.
Psychology^Honors Course in Psychology Honors Course in Psychology Individual study and seminar in selected phases of psychology.
Psychology^Basic Research Methods in Psychology Basic Research Methods in Psychology Introduction to methods of psychological research, with special attention to hypothesis formation and testing, threats to validity, and data presentation.
Psychology^Psychology of the Differently-Abled Psychology of the Differently-Abled This course familiarizes students with the needs and abilities of people with varying physical challenges through academic and experimental exercises.
Psychology^Intermediate Experimental Design Intermediate Experimental Design Design and analysis of experiments on human and animal behavior, including application of the t, F, chi-square, and binomial distributions.
Psychology^Principles of Measurement Principles of Measurement Scale transformation, norms, standardization, validation procedures, estimation of reliability.
Psychology^Mathematical Psychology Mathematical Psychology Formalized psychological theories including models of social, biological, cognitive, and learning phenomena.
Psychology^Advanced Research Projects in Psychology Advanced Research Projects in Psychology Advanced methodology focusing on the logic and practice of research culminating in the completion of a student designed research project.
Psychology^Advanced Research Methods in Psychology Advanced Research Methods in Psychology Advanced methodology focusing on the logic and practice of research in a selected content area of psychology.
Psychology^Program Evaluation Program Evaluation Examination of the theories and practice of program evaluation; emphasis on applied work utilizing a wide range of evaluation approaches.
Psychology^Child Development Child Development Study of the psychology of the growing person from conception through adolescence, focusing more on periods up to middle childhood.
Psychology^Adolescence Adolescence Physical, cognitive, and personality development during adolescence.
Psychology^Cognitive Development Cognitive Development Development of reasoning and related cognitive skills, such as perception and language.
Psychology^Social and Personality Development Social and Personality Development Development of social and personality attributes.
Psychology^Topics in Developmental Psychology Topics in Developmental Psychology Special topics in developmental psychology.
Psychology^Development Throughout Adulthood Development Throughout Adulthood Processes of development and change of behavior from early adulthood through old age, emphasizing theory, method, and empirical research.
Psychology^Psychology and a Sustainable World Psychology and a Sustainable World Students study relationships between humans and the natural world and psychological factors contributing to environmental problems and sustainable solutions.
Psychology^Advanced Social Psychology Advanced Social Psychology In depth study of selected research areas in human social behavior.
Psychology^Self and Social Judgment Self and Social Judgment Individual's perceptions, evaluations, and decision-making strategies about themselves, others, and social situations or issues.
Psychology^Human Sexuality Human Sexuality Psychological influences on human sexual behavior such as love, sexual orientation, gender, intercourse, contraception, sexually transmitted diseases, dysfunctions, and paraphilias.
Psychology^Social Psychology of Interpersonal/Intergroup Relationships Social Psychology of Interpersonal/Intergroup Relationships In-depth study of relationships among individuals  or groups .
Psychology^Applied Social Psychology Applied Social Psychology Application of social psychological theories and research methods to field settings and to the study of social issues.
Psychology^Psychology of Human Emotion Psychology of Human Emotion Reviews, critiques, and applies major historical and contemporary psychological theories of emotion experience, understanding, and expression.
Psychology^Language and Thought Language and Thought Relations between language and cognition; cognitive implications of normal and impaired language development; cognition and bilingualism.
Psychology^L1 Acquisition L1 Acquisition How children learn their first language; psycholinguistic aspects of lexical, syntactic, semantic, and phonological development.
Psychology^Multicultural Psychology in America Multicultural Psychology in America This course focuses on the central role of culture, race, and ethnicity in the human condition.
Psychology^Psychology of Gaming Psychology of Gaming Upper level course examining the core psychological principles as they apply to topic of games.
Psychology^Humanistic, Existential, and Religious Approaches to Psychology Humanistic, Existential, and Religious Approaches to Psychology Existential, humanistic, and religious approaches to the psychology of experience, consciousness and will.
Psychology^Personality Theory Personality Theory Personality theories and their application to social and personality development and personality dynamics.
Psychology^History and Systems of Psychology History and Systems of Psychology Historical antecedents to scientific psychology; development of contemporary psychological theories and research areas from the formal establishment of psychology.
Psychology^Health Psychology Health Psychology Overview of the field with an emphasis on how psychological research contributes to an understanding of health and behavior.
Psychology^Trauma and Resiliency Trauma and Resiliency This course will provide an overview of the current state of knowledge and research on traumatic stress, resiliency, and treatment.
Psychology^Treatment and Education in Developmental Disabilities Treatment and Education in Developmental Disabilities Covers etiology, classification, intervention , ethical and legal issues related to individuals with developmental disabilities.
Psychology^Engineering Psychology Engineering Psychology Methods and results of experimental psychology pertinent to problems which involve man-machine relationships.
Psychology^Forensic Psychology Forensic Psychology Relations between psychological theory and research and the law, legal processes, and social policy.
Psychology^Psychology of Consciousness Psychology of Consciousness Introduction to psychological and physiological aspects of consciousness as related to brain function and clinical psychology.
Psychology^Psychology of Action Psychology of Action Basic and applied science of action, from psychological, computational, and physiological perspectives.
Psychology^Learning and Memory Learning and Memory General survey of learning and memory processes as revealed in experimental work with animals and humans.
Psychology^Advanced Cognitive Psychology Advanced Cognitive Psychology In depth study of complex mental processes: thinking, problem-solving, imagery, symbolic behavior, information-processing, attention, artificial intelligence, and language.
Psychology^Psychology of Language Psychology of Language Overview of psychological research and theory on language processes, including speech perception, word recognition, meaning representation, comprehension, and language acquisition.
Psychology^Visual Cognition Visual Cognition Overview of concepts and methods in cognitive visual-spatial processing.
Psychology^Attention and Information Processing Attention and Information Processing An examination of attentional processes. Contemporary informational processing approaches will be emphasized.
Psychology^Comparative Psychology Comparative Psychology Behavior from standpoint of phylogenetic growth and development; biological implications; comparison of different types of animals, including man.
Psychology^Advanced Conditioning and Learning Advanced Conditioning and Learning An examination of basic learning processes that have been determined within the context of classical, instrumental, and operant learning situations.
Psychology^Physiological Psychology Physiological Psychology Study of the biological bases of behavior and experience, including the anatomy and physiology of the brain and nervous system.
Psychology^Behavior Genetics Behavior Genetics Survey of gene mechanisms and gene-environment interactions in the determination of behavior; emphasis on deviant human behavior.
Psychology^Abnormal Psychology Abnormal Psychology Causes, dynamics, symptoms, and treatment of neuroses, psychoses, personality disorders, and other psychological disorders of adulthood.
Psychology^Psychology of Adjustment and Social Relationships Psychology of Adjustment and Social Relationships Theory and application of psychological principles to problems in personal and social adjustment.
Psychology^Behavior Modification Behavior Modification Principles of advanced behavior modification techniques.
Psychology^Psychological Intervention in Childhood Psychological Intervention in Childhood Psychology of personal relationships in school situations.
Psychology^Psychology of Fear and Stress Psychology of Fear and Stress Description and evaluation of major trends in research on stress and fear in humans and other animals.
Psychology^Child Psychopathology Child Psychopathology Etiology, diagnosis, and facilitation of adjustment of the mentally retarded, gifted, physically handicapped, and emotionally disturbed child.
Psychology^Mental Health Practicum with Children Mental Health Practicum with Children Overview of interventions for children at risk for mental health disorders; emphasis on intervention strategies, program evaluation, and applied skills.
Psychology^Clinical Neuropsychology Clinical Neuropsychology Overview of functional human neuroanatomy and clinical neuropsychology, with emphasis on origin, assessment, and treatment of human brain damage.
Psychology^The Psychology of Gender The Psychology of Gender Theories and research on gender differences and gender roles. Emphasis on women's and men's current positions in society.
Psychology^Introduction to Clinical Psychology Introduction to Clinical Psychology Diagnostic precedures, treatment approaches, occupational settings, and ethical considerations relevant to the profession of the clinical psychologist.
Psychology^Selection and Assessment in Organizations Selection and Assessment in Organizations Background in personnel testing, performance measurement, selection strategies, with emphasis on validity and measurement reliability.
Psychology^Work Attitudes and Motivation Work Attitudes and Motivation Survey of theory and research with respect to attitudes, morale, and motivation of employees and management.
Psychology^Leadership in Work Settings Leadership in Work Settings Review of research and application of behavior principles in the areas of management and supervision.
Psychology^Professional Development in Psychology Professional Development in Psychology Develop post-graduation plan for use of psychology major; develop professional presentation style.
Psychology^Senior Seminar in Psychology Senior Seminar in Psychology Capstone experience for senior psychology majors; review of current research literature; topics vary.
Psychology^Honors Thesis Honors Thesis An opportunity to pursue an advanced research thesis or project to integrate studies within psychology.
Psychology^Current Topics in Psychology Current Topics in Psychology Current topics addressing significant contemporary developments in psychology.
Psychology^Senior Thesis Senior Thesis Supervised senior thesis research in psychology.
Psychology^Research Projects Research Projects Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Psychology^Research Projects Research Projects Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Psychology^Practicum with Hi-Risk Youth and Children Practicum with Hi-Risk Youth and Children Overview of interventions for children at risk for mental health disorders; emphasis on intervention strategies, program evaluation, and applied skills.
Psychology^Animal Research Practicum Animal Research Practicum The primary objective of this course is to provide students with a unique hands-on experience conducting research with nonhuman primates. Within this objective are three main goals: 1) To familiarize students to the day-to-day work involved in conducting behavioral experiments with animals; 2) To increase students knowledge of select topics in animal communication and cognition. This course builds on material taught in Psych 268 , though that course is not a prerequisite; and 3) To provide students with experience reading and evaluating primary source scientific papers, with the eventual goal of having the students author their own APA-style paper at the end of the course. There are two main components of this course offering. The first component consists of lab work. Students will be expected to put in a minimum of 7 hours per week working with cotton-top tamarian  monkeys in a laboratory setting.
Psychology^Teaching Assistant for PSYCH 200 Teaching Assistant for PSYCH 200 Teaching assistant for PSYCH 200 will attend all regular meetings of PSYCH 200 including the SPSS labs, offer office hours each week, conduct review sessions prior to each exam, assist students and faculty as needed in class, and assist with lab attendant duties.
Psychology^Psychology Teaching Experience Psychology Teaching Experience Teaching assistantship in psychology courses.
Psychology^Statistics Teaching Assistant Statistics Teaching Assistant Student will regularly attend class, tutor students, review sessions, develop and present class content, will be evaluated by the class and under the supervision of a faculty member at the minimum of four hourse per week.
Psychology^Emergency Management Certification with Psychological Trauma Stress Studies Emergency Management Certification with Psychological Trauma Stress Studies Combine the training to be an EMT with psychological principles and traumatic stress studies.
Psychology^PSYCH 301 Teaching Assistant PSYCH 301 Teaching Assistant Student will attend PSYCH 301 lectures and prepare quizzes. Student will hold study sessions and lead one lecture. Student will maintain a log.
Psychology^Psychology Teaching Assistant Experience Psychology Teaching Assistant Experience Will attend first year seminar lectures and prepare activities.
Psychology^Teaching Assistant for PSYCH 420 Teaching Assistant for PSYCH 420 Student will gain experience developing activities for undergraduate level classes. Will design and execute nine discussion/workshops according to the weekly topics taught in PSYCH 420.
Psychology^Psychology and Movement Behavior Psychology and Movement Behavior This special topics course is meant to introduce students to basic concepts and applications of psychological knowledge for organized sport, physical activity, and sports medicine. Topics will include history of sport and exercise psychology, social and environmental influences on sport participation and performance, mental skills training for sport and physical activity, and health and well-being within sport and physical activity.
Psychology^Sexual and Domestic Violence Sexual and Domestic Violence This course investigates violence against women, specifically domestic, sexual, and relationship violence. Students will examine some of the legal, sociological, and psychological perspectives about sexual domestic, and relationship violence as well as the social and cultural roots of violence against women. Students will also gain an understanding of the experience of victims of domestic and sexual violence as well as the issues presented by perpetrators. Students will be evaluated based on performance on exams, and two research papers.
Psychology^Psychology of the Walking Dead Psychology of the Walking Dead Using the graphic novels and hit television series "The Walking Dead" as a storytelling device, this course will cover a range of psychological phenomenon involving neuroscience, leadership, group processes, emotions, trauma, and culture.
Psychology^Social Psychology in our Lives Social Psychology in our Lives This course will examine various topics in social psychology and how they apply in a real world setting. The course will be mostly seminar, with regular readings and written assignments.
Psychology^Music Therapy Practicum Music Therapy Practicum Students will travel off campus to observe music therapy in action. Under the therapist's supervision, students will devise music therapies to meet client's needs.
Psychology^Human Development, Health, and Education from a Global Perspective Human Development, Health, and Education from a Global Perspective This advanced undergraduate course, structured as a senior seminar, is intended to address the University's global community objectives as well as provide scholarly background on India for Schreyer Honors college students interested in the India Program and certification.
Earth Science^The Earth System and Global Change The Earth System and Global Change An interdisciplinary introduction to the processes, interactions and evolution of the earth's biosphere, geosphere and hydrosphere.
Earth Science^Environment Earth Environment Earth Natural processes and their relationship to anthropogenic influences. General principles of global cycles and the role they play in natural hazards, global warming, ozone depletion, etc.
Earth Science^Environment Earth: Environment and Energy Environment Earth: Environment and Energy Examination of climate change and energy issues.
Earth Science^Natural Disasters:  Hollywood vs. Reality Natural Disasters:  Hollywood vs. Reality Analysis of the causes and consequences of natural disasters; comparison of popular media portrayal of disasters with perspective from scientific research.
Earth Science^Natural Disasters:  Hollywood vs. Reality Natural Disasters:  Hollywood vs. Reality Analysis of the causes and consequences of natural disasters; comparison of popular media portrayal of disasters with perspective from scientific research.
Earth Science^Earth in the Future:  Predicting Climate Change and Its Impacts Over the   Next Century Earth in the Future:  Predicting Climate Change and Its Impacts Over the   Next Century Climate predictions for the coming century are utilized to examine potential impacts on regions, sectors of society, and natural ecosystems.
Earth Science^Environments of Africa:  Geology and Climate Change Environments of Africa:  Geology and Climate Change Significant natural features of Africa as related to human endeavor; case studies include the Nile, climate change, and natural resources.
Earth Science^The African Continent: Earthquakes, Tectonics and Geology The African Continent: Earthquakes, Tectonics and Geology Study of earthquakes and seismic waves to learn about the geology and plate tectonics of the African continent.
Earth Science^Coastal Processes, Hazards and Society Coastal Processes, Hazards and Society Processes responsible for formation, diversity, and evolution of coastal landscapes; socioeconomic and policy responses to changes in coastal regions.
Earth Science^Water: Science and Society Water: Science and Society Investigation of water behavior and occurence, its relevance to life, human activities, politics, and society.
Earth Science^Dinosaur Extinctions and Other Controversies Dinosaur Extinctions and Other Controversies Dinosaur extinctions and other major and controversial events in the history of life.
Earth Science^Modeling the Earth System Modeling the Earth System A quantitative introduction to the evolution of Earth's biosphere, atmosphere, and hydrosphere, with emphasis on the carbon cycle and climate.
Earth Science^Coral Reef Systems Coral Reef Systems The geography, geology, biology ecology and chemistry of coral reef ecosystems; threats to reef environments; and techniques for reef surveying and monitoring; with local geologic and distant modern field studies.
Earth Science^Fundamentals of Climate Science Fundamentals of Climate Science Address the meaning, variability and change of climate over time as a result of natural and man-made processes. Course is geared toward elementary ed majors but could be appropriate for EMS students interested in reform-based science education.
Earth Science^Earth Sciences Seminar Earth Sciences Seminar Interdisciplinary study of environmental problems in the earth sciences.
Political Science^PL PL No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Design^First-Year Seminar in Graphic Design First-Year Seminar in Graphic Design An orientation to the historical, social, and professional context of design and an exposure to a variety of ethical, philosophical, and topical ideas from the world of design.
Design^Introduction to Graphic Design Introduction to Graphic Design A beginning level graphic design course. Instruction touches on the practice, theories, history and processes of the graphic design industry.
Design^Thinking Creatively: Defining Problems, Solving Problems, and Generating   Ideas in Graphic Design Thinking Creatively: Defining Problems, Solving Problems, and Generating   Ideas in Graphic Design An introduction to the theory and practice of defining problems, developing solutions, and generating ideas in design.
Design^Introductory Design Studio Introductory Design Studio A studio course in defining problems, solving problems, and generating ideas.
Design^Graphic Design Studio I Graphic Design Studio I A beginning graphic design studio course. Instruction focuses on the practical and analytical process of creating graphic designs and their critical evaluation.
Design^Typography Typography A consideration of the word in relation to visual organization and its application to communication.
Design^The History of Graphic Design The History of Graphic Design A survey of graphic design, especially emphasizing influential movements, innovative designers and technological advances relevant to contemporary visual communication.
Design^Independent Study Independent Study Creative projects, including research and design, which are supervised on an individual basis and which fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Design^Introduction to Graphic Storytelling Introduction to Graphic Storytelling A drawing and writing-intensive studio course exploring the visual language of comics and graphic novels.
Design^Design Photography Design Photography An investigation of graphic photography processes and how print technology affects the final appearance of a photograph.
Design^Graphic Design Technology I Graphic Design Technology I Theoretical and practical aspects of computer application to graphic design.
Design^Applied Communication Applied Communication Definition and concentrated involvement in problem/audience analysis, with emphasis on understanding symbol and image in evoking audience response.
Design^Graphic Design Technology II Graphic Design Technology II Advanced application of digital technology as a medium of graphic design.
Design^Practical Communications Practical Communications Practical design experience for students through design/publicity problems from the University and community non-profit organizations.
Design^Studio Apprenticeship Studio Apprenticeship Direct involvement in the creative process of the artist-teacher in the studio environment.
Design^Advanced Typographic Systems Advanced Typographic Systems Advances knowledge of formal typographic systems. Investigates the communicative potential of emerging methodologies on language systems in visual culture.
Design^Time and Sequence Time and Sequence Development of visual sequence as replies to graphic design problems.
Design^Package Design Package Design Orientation to packaging designs as it relates to the consumer, client, and to societal and environmental concerns.
Design^Senior Problems Senior Problems Development of visual replies to graphic design problems.
Design^Graphic Design Seminar Graphic Design Seminar A seminar on subjects which relate to the field of graphic design.
Design^Book Design Book Design Writing, designing, illustrating and production  of a book.
Communications^Newspaper Practicum Newspaper Practicum A newspaper/print media practicum. Credits do not fulfill Communication major credits in all programs.
Communications^Newspaper Editorial Staff Newspaper Editorial Staff A newspaper/print media practicum. Credits do not fulfill Communication major credits in all programs.
Communications^Radio Practicum Radio Practicum A broadcast media practicum. Credits do not fulfill Communication major credits in all programs.
Communications^Television Practicum Television Practicum A broadcast media practicum designed to provide students experience with TV and video production in a variety of contexts.
Communications^The Mass Media and Society The Mass Media and Society Mass communications in the United States: organization, role, content, and effects of newspapers, magazines, television, radio, books, and films.
Communications^The Mass Media and Society The Mass Media and Society Mass communications in the United States: organization, role, content, and effects of newspapers, magazines, television, radio, books, and films.
Communications^Media and Democracy Media and Democracy This course considers the role of the mass media with regard to developing civic awareness and engagement in democratic societies.
Communications^Introduction to Media Effects Introduction to Media Effects Examination of individuals' selection, uses and perceptions of media and the effects of media on individuals' attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors.
Communications^Advertising and Society Advertising and Society History and structure of advertising in American society; the role of advertising in the economic and communications systems; regulation. May not be used to fulfill requirements of any major in the School of Communications.
Communications^The Art of the Cinema The Art of the Cinema The development of cinema to its present state; principles of evaluation and appreciation; examples from the past and present.
Communications^The Art of the Cinema The Art of the Cinema The development of cinema to its present state; principles of evaluation and appreciation; examples from the past and present.
Communications^The Art of the Cinema The Art of the Cinema The development of cinema to its present state; principles of evaluation and appreciation; examples from the past and present.
Communications^Basic News Writing Skills Basic News Writing Skills Grammar, punctuation, spelling, and word usage skills required of journalists.
Communications^American Journalism: Values, Traditions, and Practices American Journalism: Values, Traditions, and Practices This course is designed to give students a broad overview of American journalism, its past, present and future; its traditions, principles and values.
Communications^Introduction to the Sports Industry Introduction to the Sports Industry The course provides a basic understanding of how the principles of business apply in the industry of sports.
Communications^Survey of Electronic Media and Telecommunications Survey of Electronic Media and Telecommunications The development of electronic media and telecommunications, emphasizing social, economic, political and global impact.
Communications^Gaming and Interactive Media Gaming and Interactive Media Introduction to business and social aspects of interactive media, videogame and simulations industries.
Communications^Gender, Diversity and the Media Gender, Diversity and the Media Explores the relationship between media and society through critical analysis of its role in social reality.
Communications^Gender, Diversity and the Media Gender, Diversity and the Media Explores the relationship between media and society through critical analysis of its role in social reality.
Communications^Basic Photography for Communications Basic Photography for Communications An introduction to photography, emphasizing both technical skills and aesthetics with both the camera and in the darkroom.
Communications^Writing for Media Writing for Media The application of creativity to the practical concerns of narrative script and radio/television spot writing.
Communications^Graphic Design for Communications Graphic Design for Communications Introduction to basic design principles, critical analysis of visual material, and solving graphics problems utilizing traditional and digital production tools.
Communications^Basic Video/Filmmaking Basic Video/Filmmaking Introduction to basic motion picture techniques, emphasizing practical experience in filmmaking.
Communications^Film History and Theory Film History and Theory Exploration of film theory and criticism in the context of aesthetic, technological, and economic evolution of film history.
Communications^Film History and Theory Film History and Theory Exploration of film theory and criticism in the context of aesthetic, technological, and economic evolution of film history.
Communications^The Nature of Media The Nature of Media A theoretical, cultural, and philosophical study of print and non-print media, including their histories, possibilities, limitations, and interrelationships.
Communications^News Writing and Reporting News Writing and Reporting News and news values; legal and ethical problems of reporting; writing and reporting news for the mass media.
Communications^The Literature of Journalism The Literature of Journalism Representative nonfiction by writers such as Susan Sheehan, George Orwell, Joan Didion, Alice Walker, Truman Capote, C. D. B. Bryan, Russell Baker.
Communications^Photojournalism Photojournalism Photography for communication in print and online; creating photographs for newspapers, magazines and the Web; digital camera and software skills.
Communications^Introduction to Multimedia Production Introduction to Multimedia Production Introduction to multimedia project activities to explore image editing, layout, the integration of texts and images and web architecture.
Communications^Principles of Multimedia Journalism Principles of Multimedia Journalism The course introduces how journalists work with the tools of multimedia and how multimedia is changing journalism.
Communications^Television Field Production Television Field Production Explore the particularities of single camera pre-production and production and analog and digital videotape editing.
Communications^Television Studio Production Television Studio Production Students will learn the technical aspects of multi-camera studio television production.
Communications^Introduction to Media & Politics Introduction to Media & Politics This course explores the intersection of media and politics, introducing students to the critical analysis of mediated political discourse.
Communications^Communication with People with Disabilities in Organizations Communication with People with Disabilities in Organizations Research paper on best practices on interacting with people with disabilities in business.
Communications^Mass Communication Research Mass Communication Research Introduction to research methods in mass communications.
Communications^Applications for Media Writing Applications for Media Writing Tutorial and practice in various kinds or journalistic and commercial writing, emphasizing basic skills.
Communications^Introduction to Advertising Introduction to Advertising Advertising management in business, including communication theory; common industry practices; basics of copy, media, and budget decision; and environmental influences. A student may not receive credit for both COMM 320 and MKTG 322.
Communications^Introduction to Advertising Introduction to Advertising Advertising management in business, including communication theory; common industry practices; basics of copy, media, and budget decision; and environmental influences.
Communications^Visual Communication Theory and Analysis Visual Communication Theory and Analysis This course explores visual theory pertaining to movies, television production, and graphic design, emphasizing semiotics, the psychology of vision, and reception theory.
Communications^Reporting Reporting Practice in researching and gathering material for and preparation of news stories for print media.
Communications^Film History for Filmmakers I: The Development of the Cinema to 1960 Film History for Filmmakers I: The Development of the Cinema to 1960 History of the art, industry, economics, culture, and technology of cinema from its origins to 1960.
Communications^Intermediate Documentary Production Intermediate Documentary Production Writing-intensive exploration of documentary video techniques and aesthetics through the completion of short exercises.
Communications^Intermediate Narrative Production Intermediate Narrative Production Exploration of narrative film or video techniques and aesthetics through the completion of short exercises and projects.
Communications^Intermediate Alternative Production Intermediate Alternative Production Exploration of alternative film or video production techniques and aesthetics through the completion of short exercises and projects.
Communications^Intermediate Cinematography and Editing Techniques Intermediate Cinematography and Editing Techniques Exploration of film and video production techniques through the use of camera, lighting, audio and digital post-production equipment.
Communications^Idea Development and Media Writing Idea Development and Media Writing Introduction to various modalities of idea development and written expression for media production.
Communications^Writing for the Screen I Writing for the Screen I A beginning course in narrative Screenwriting emphasizing analysis, creativity, and critiquing skills necessary for the development of storytelling.
Communications^Comparative Media Cultures Comparative Media Cultures Intercultural examination of economic, political, philosophical, and historical forces that shape various societies' newsgathering routines and content.
Communications^Radio Reporting Radio Reporting Reporting, writing, producing, and presenting radio news programs, focusing on the development of news judgment and writing skills.
Communications^Desktop Publishing Desktop Publishing Practical and theoretical approach to visual communication production in newspaper journalism, advertising, public relations, and other communication industries.
Communications^Public Relations Public Relations Public understanding of organizations and institutions; identification and analysis of public; media relations; public relations practice.
Communications^Public Relations Public Relations Public understanding of organizations and institutions; identification and analysis of public; media relations; public relations practice.
Communications^Visual and Video Communication Visual and Video Communication A study of the technical and aesthetic factors in visual production, including visualization, composition, lighting, sound, performance, and project management.
Communications^Digital Public Relations Digital Public Relations This course discusses digital strategies and techniques for public relations.
Communications^Crisis Communications in Public Relations Crisis Communications in Public Relations The course is designed to introduce students to organizational risk assessment and protecting an organization's reputation in times of crisis.
Communications^Audio Production Audio Production Theory and practice in studio recording and broadcasting techniques, including continuity/news writing, control room operation and audio production.
Communications^Telecommunications Regulation Telecommunications Regulation Overview of the regulation of electronic media.
Communications^Advanced Video Production Advanced Video Production Advanced video production techniques and production management issues.
Communications^Webcast Production Webcast Production Explore all aspects of producing a live television show. Final project is streaming a live webcast online.
Communications^Telecommunications Promotion and Sales Telecommunications Promotion and Sales Principles of marketing services applied to telecommunications and information products/services; models of customer-focused selling and their applications to media time sales.
Communications^Media Programming Strategies Media Programming Strategies Framework, principles, and strategies for media programming from perspective of content distributors and media outlets.
Communications^Telecommunications History Telecommunications History Historical development of telecommunications systems in the United States, including telegraph, telephone, radio, television, and the internet.
Communications^Telecommunications Management Telecommunications Management Introduction to basic principles of management as they apply in electronic media industries.
Communications^In the Game: TV Sports Magazine In the Game: TV Sports Magazine Students will produce, report, anchor and direct half-hour sports magazine show.
Communications^Mass Media in History Mass Media in History Relationship of news media to social, economic, and political developments in the Western world.
Communications^International Reporting International Reporting International Reporting is an advanced level course in the College of Communications designed to give student journalists experience in reporting the news in a foreign country.
Communications^Law of Mass Communications Law of Mass Communications Nature and theories of law; the Supreme Court and press freedom; legal problems of the mass media.
Communications^Law of Mass Communications Law of Mass Communications Nature and theories of law; the Supreme Court and press freedom; legal problems of the mass media.
Communications^Political Economy of Communications Political Economy of Communications Structure and functions of American and other mass communications systems and their relationship to political and economic systems.
Communications^Political Economy of Communications Political Economy of Communications Structure and functions of American and other mass communications systems and their relationship to political and economic systems.
Communications^Electronic News Gathering and Editing Electronic News Gathering and Editing Intermediate level skills in creating and editing television news packages.
Communications^Media and Government Media and Government This course examines the relationship between politics, governance, and news media, and provides a foundation for understanding media's role in public policy.
Communications^Perspectives on American Journalism Perspectives on American Journalism The course examines a number of current issues and topics surrounding journalism including: ethics, state of the industry, and news vs. entertainment.
Communications^Media and World Politics Media and World Politics COMM 407C helps to make sense of the impact of media, public opinion and non-state actors shaping foreign policy.
Communications^Cultural Foundations of Communications Cultural Foundations of Communications Examination of oral, scribal, print, industrial, and electronic cultures; analysis of impact of technology on communications and social structure.
Communications^News Media Ethics News Media Ethics Ethical problems in the practice of journalism; principal public criticisms of news media; case study approach.
Communications^News Media Ethics News Media Ethics Ethical problems in the practice of journalism; principal public criticisms of news media; case study approach.
Communications^International Mass Communications International Mass Communications The role of international media in communication among and between nations and peoples.
Communications^Cultural Aspects of the Mass Media Cultural Aspects of the Mass Media The mass media as creators and critics of mass culture in American life; relationships between the media and mass culture.
Communications^Cultural Aspects of the Mass Media Cultural Aspects of the Mass Media The mass media as creators and critics of mass culture in American life; relationships between the media and mass culture.
Communications^Sports, Media and Society Sports, Media and Society Sport and media relationship in American culture.
Communications^The Mass Media and the Public The Mass Media and the Public Nature of mass communications, relationships between mass media and public, media influences on opinion; social pressures on the media.
Communications^The Mass Media and the Public The Mass Media and the Public Social-level and political theories of the relationships between media and public; media influences on public opinion; social pressure on the media; political communications.
Communications^Media Management Media Management Theoretical bases and practical approaches for management and administration of communications projects, organizations, and resources.
Communications^Advanced Photography for Communications Advanced Photography for Communications Advanced applications in documentary photography emphasizing the narrative qualities of imagery, and utilizing digital technologies.
Communications^Ethics and Regulation in Advertising and Public Relations Ethics and Regulation in Advertising and Public Relations Ethical issues in practice of advertising and public relations; legal and regulatory issues; case studies.
Communications^Media Effects: Theory and Research Media Effects: Theory and Research Investigation of social and psychological effects of media messages and technologies via theories and empirical evidence pertaining to processes of effects.
Communications^World Media Systems World Media Systems Comparative study of modern mass systems and the evolution and structure of specific countries' systems.
Communications^World Media Systems World Media Systems Comparative study of modern media systems of mass communications in selected foreign countries.
Communications^Research Methods in Advertising and Public Relations Research Methods in Advertising and Public Relations Primary and secondary research methods used in the development of solutions to advertising and public relations problems.
Communications^Advertising Creative Strategies Advertising Creative Strategies Planning, designing, writing advertisements; introduction to graphics and production techniques and processes; layout and copywriting practice and critiques.
Communications^Advertising Media Planning Advertising Media Planning Analysis, selection, and scheduling of advertising media; examination of algorithms, technologies, and software used in media planning.
Communications^Advertising Campaigns Advertising Campaigns Advertising campaign problems from the viewpoint of the national advertiser and advertising agency; production of a complete advertising campaign.
Communications^Advanced Advertising Campaigns Advanced Advertising Campaigns An academic option for student AAF members who will develop an integrated advertising campaign to be presented in District competition.
Communications^International and Intercultural Strategic Communication International and Intercultural Strategic Communication Advertising and public relations in the international and intercultural arenas; multicultural strategic communications strategies.
Communications^Client/Agency Relations Client/Agency Relations Building and maintaining client/agency relationships in advertising, public relations and direct response agency business functions.
Communications^Principles of Strategic Communications Principles of Strategic Communications Principles of Strategic Communications provides an overview of the various media and communications methods that comprise modern integrated marketing campaigns.
Communications^Strategic Communications Law Strategic Communications Law Analysis of laws and regulations affecting online advertising and strategic communications.
Communications^Strategic Communications in a Global Environment Strategic Communications in a Global Environment Strategic Communications in a Global Environment will provide students with a framework for applying public relations and advertising tools across media platforms and across cultures.
Communications^Research & Analytics Research & Analytics This course covers online research methods for strategic communication, including web analytics, online surveys, online interviews, and content analysis.
Communications^Social Media Strategies Social Media Strategies This course covers social media theory, tools and best practices to prepare students for current and future use of social media.
Communications^Mass Media and Politics Mass Media and Politics Study of mass media as institutions and the effects of the mass media on politics, public policy, and citizens.
Communications^Topics in Television Culture and Communication Topics in Television Culture and Communication Study television technologies, techniques, audiences, genres and trends in relation to a specific decades or cultural periods.
Communications^Film History for Filmmakers II: The Development of the Cinema from 1960    to the Present Film History for Filmmakers II: The Development of the Cinema from 1960    to the Present History of the art, industry, economics, culture, and technology of cinema from 1960 to the present.
Communications^Movies, Media, and the Jewish American Experience Movies, Media, and the Jewish American Experience Study of Jewish American Film and Popular Culture.
Communications^Advanced Audio Production Advanced Audio Production Advanced concepts and techniques of audio production in analog and digital formats with hands-on experience in recording, mixing and editing.
Communications^Advanced Documentary Production Advanced Documentary Production Advanced exploration of documentary production techniques and aesthetics through the completion of a short video project.
Communications^Advanced Narrative Production Advanced Narrative Production Advanced exploration of narrative production techniques and aesthetics through the completion of a short film or video project.
Communications^Advanced Alternative Production Advanced Alternative Production Advanced exploration in experimental and animation forms through the production of a film or video project.
Communications^Advanced Cinematography and Lighting Techniques Advanced Cinematography and Lighting Techniques Advanced exploration in camera, lighting, audio, and color-grading techniques, emphasizing technical skills as well as aesthetics.
Communications^Advanced Graphic Design for Communications Advanced Graphic Design for Communications Theory and practice designing graphic visual communication in commercial, non- commercial, and fine art formats for print and on-line media.
Communications^Producing Workshop Producing Workshop This course will immerse students in the language and practice of producing film and video projects.
Communications^Advanced Post-Production Techniques Advanced Post-Production Techniques This course offers intensive practical experience in editing, motion graphics and sound mixing techniques, emphasizing both technical skills and aesthetics.
Communications^Directing Workshop Directing Workshop An advanced aesthetic and skill production course in directing for the screen.
Communications^Writing for the Screen II Writing for the Screen II An advanced course in screenwriting that further develops elements of storytelling technique.
Communications^Advanced Group Production I Advanced Group Production I A two semester advanced production course emphasizing intensive collaborative film-video production from script through post-production.
Communications^Advanced Group Production II Advanced Group Production II Continuation of advanced production course emphasizing intensive collaborative film-video production from script through post-production.
Communications^Topics in American Film Topics in American Film Critical and historical studies of American films. Analysis of directing, cinematography, editing, screenwriting, and acting.
Communications^Topics in International Cinema Topics in International Cinema Critical and historical studies of topics in non-American film. Analysis of theory, direction, cinematography, editing, and screenwriting.
Communications^Narrative Theory: Film and Literature Narrative Theory: Film and Literature Comparative study of the aesthetics and techniques of film and literature; close analyses of masters of each art form.
Communications^Documentary in Film and Television Documentary in Film and Television Study of representative films from various documentary movements, examining form, technique, trends, and audience objectives.
Communications^Advanced Film Theory and Criticism Advanced Film Theory and Criticism Close examination of classic and contemporary film theory and critical perspectives.
Communications^Media Criticism and Theory Media Criticism and Theory Critical and theoretical approaches to the analysis of media and communication.
Communications^Media Audiences and Contexts Media Audiences and Contexts Survey of the ways media attempt to influence audience reception and how audiences hold sway over media content.
Communications^Media Law and Ethics Media Law and Ethics The study and practice of key issues in media law and ethics, including libel law, conflict of interest, truth in advertising.
Communications^Cultural Effects of Interactive and Online Media Cultural Effects of Interactive and Online Media Study of the global social impact and rhetorical limitations of converging media, emphasizing cross-cultural media influences.
Communications^Reporting Methods Reporting Methods Techniques in reporting news and trends at the local, regional, and county levels. Emphasis on both deadline and interpretive reporting.
Communications^Magazine Writing Magazine Writing Students will learn about idea conception, writing, and editing of magazine stories.
Communications^Feature Writing Feature Writing Reporting and writing the human interest article for newspapers and magazines.
Communications^Newspaper Design Newspaper Design This course will cover newspaper design. Students will learn to solve design problems, edit photos, and work with industry software.
Communications^Editorial, Opinion and Commentary Writing Editorial, Opinion and Commentary Writing Introduces techniques of editorial, opinion and commentary writing.
Communications^Television Reporting Television Reporting Television news reporting and production.
Communications^Public Affairs Broadcasting Public Affairs Broadcasting Students research, write, produce and direct public affairs shows and in-depth reports.
Communications^News Editing and Evaluation News Editing and Evaluation Concepts and procedures involved in processing news for various news media, but with emphasis on print media editing.
Communications^Graphic Applications in Print Communications Graphic Applications in Print Communications Issues, concepts, and practice identified with contemporary design strategies for print journalism, advertising, and public relations.
Communications^Photography for the Mass Media Photography for the Mass Media Development of an informed and critical approach to photocommunication; individual and team projects, seminars, and critiques.
Communications^Convergent Media News Service: Newspaper Production Convergent Media News Service: Newspaper Production Practicum emphasizing newsgathering and reporting for newspaper and for additional media formats.
Communications^Convergent Media News Service: TV Convergent Media News Service: TV Practicum emphasizing television news package production for periodic campus news program and for additional media formats.
Communications^Convergent Media News Service: TV Convergent Media News Service: TV Practicum emphasizing television news package production for periodic campus news program and for additional media formats.
Communications^Convergent Media News Service: Radio and Online Publications Convergent Media News Service: Radio and Online Publications Practicum emphasizing streaming radio news package production or production of news pieces for online publications and for additional media formats.
Communications^Convergent Media News Service: Radio and Online Publications Convergent Media News Service: Radio and Online Publications Practicum emphasizing streaming radio news package production or production of news pieces for online publications and for additional media formats.
Communications^Public Relations Media and Methods Public Relations Media and Methods Analyzing media and audiences for public relations purposes; planning, designing, and writing public relations communications; press relations and publicity methods.
Communications^Public Relations Event Planning Public Relations Event Planning Effective planning, organization, implementation and evaluation of events planning.
Communications^Public Relations Campaigns Public Relations Campaigns Case studies and problems in publicity and public relations in industry, government, and institutions.
Communications^Depth Reporting Depth Reporting Exploration of strategies for developing indepth newspaper or magazine articles, with an emphasis on gathering information and long-form writing.
Communications^Issues for Newsroom Managers Issues for Newsroom Managers Newspaper and television management, the state of the industry and topics that prospective employees should know about.
Communications^Sports Writing Sports Writing Techniques in sports reporting and writing for media.
Communications^Sports Broadcasting Sports Broadcasting Techniques of sports broadcasting for radio and television.
Communications^Sports Information Sports Information Techniques of effective media relations used in a sports information office.
Communications^Telecommunication Economics Telecommunication Economics Economic, regulatory/business issues in the design/operation of large-scale telecommunication networks such as telephone, cable, wireless, and computer networks.
Communications^Television News Television News Produce a weekly television newscast.
Communications^Advanced Multimedia Production Advanced Multimedia Production Advanced work in multimedia production using web authoring, video editing, audio editing, image editing and animation software.
Communications^Wireless Communications Industry Wireless Communications Industry A broad examination of the wireless phone industry including its development, current structure and future.
Communications^Emerging Telecommunications Technologies Emerging Telecommunications Technologies Overview of technology of electronic media and related societal issues.
Communications^Emerging Telecommunications Technologies Emerging Telecommunications Technologies Overview of technology of electronic media and related societal issues.
Communications^Analysis of Broadcast-Cable Policy Analysis of Broadcast-Cable Policy Analysis of current policy issues in Broadcast/Cable. Standards and methods for evaluating telecomm policy processes and outcomes.
Communications^Telecommunications Ethics Telecommunications Ethics Drawing on normative theory and political philosophy, this course explores problems in ethics and social responsibility in telecommunications.
Communications^Advanced Telecommunications Management and Leadership Advanced Telecommunications Management and Leadership Strategic management, leadership and ethics issues including marketing, financing, entrepreneurship, and innovation.
Communications^Writers' Seminar Writers' Seminar Workshop designed for advanced students interested in professional writing, involving extensive mutual and self-criticism.
Communications^Media and Information Industries Media and Information Industries The structure, conduct and performance of firms and industries in the electronic media and information sectors.
Communications^Issues in Electronic Commerce: Policy and Implementation Issues in Electronic Commerce: Policy and Implementation Analysis of policy, strategic issues, and implications raised by the rapid growth of electronic commerce over the Internet.
Communications^Convergent Media Seminar Convergent Media Seminar This seminar examines media convergence issues, trends, and effects on society through discussions, presentations, and creation of a capstone project.
Communications^International Telecommunications and Trade Policy International Telecommunications and Trade Policy Development in the law, policy, and business of international telecommunications; emphasis on multilateral forums--International Telecommunications Union and World Trade Organization.
Communications^Internet Law and Policy Internet Law and Policy Development in the law, policy, and business of Internet-mediated communications and commerce; emphasis on impact on existing legal, regulatory, and economic models.
Communications^Entrepreneurship in the Information Age: Senior Seminar Entrepreneurship in the Information Age: Senior Seminar Provides students with knowledge/tools to take their innovation/technology idea through the business planning, capital, and operations budgeting processes.
Communications^News Practicum News Practicum Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Communications^Measuring the Effectiveness of Advertising on Snapchat Measuring the Effectiveness of Advertising on Snapchat Many companies are using Snapchat to engage with consumers, but is it truly effective?
Communications^Schreyer Honors Thesis: The NFL and Concussions Schreyer Honors Thesis: The NFL and Concussions This Schreyer Honors Thesis Involves A Study of The National Football League's Current Concussion Public Relations Campaign, as well as its Effectiveness.
Communications^Young Consumers' Perception on Product Placement in Online Video Games Young Consumers' Perception on Product Placement in Online Video Games Marketing through online video games. Product placement during game play.
Communications^Young Consumer Perception of Snapchat Marketing Young Consumer Perception of Snapchat Marketing Many companies are using Snapchat to engage with young consumers, but is it truly effective? Students will complete a research project pertaining to Snapchat marketing.
Communications^Intermediate Alternative Production Intermediate Alternative Production Exploration of alternative film or video production techniques and aesthetics through the completion of short exercises and projects.
Communications^College TV/Radio Station Development College TV/Radio Station Development Assist with training and developing BVZ and PCB-TV students.
Communications^Honors Independent Studies Honors Independent Studies Creative projects, including research and design, which are supervised on an individual basis and which fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Communications^Thesis Research Thesis Research Thesis credits for undergraduate students in the Schreyer Honors College with the area of honors in one of the majors in the College of Communications. The honors thesis may take the form of a scholarly project involving the examination of some aspect of the field of communications, or the thesis may involve the production of a professional project.
Communications^Promotional Video Agency Promotional Video Agency Advanced experience in a team environment producing strategic communication videos for campus clients, including those in athletics and academic units. Students will fill a variety of roles related to strategic marketing, including needs analysis, developing solutions, managing client relations and creating effective video.
Communications^International Documentary Production International Documentary Production This Maymester documentary filmmaking course begins on the University Park campus with students researching and proposing a short documentary film. The class then travels to Amsterdam for approximately 9-days to film their proposed projects. Upon return, students will edit and screen their finished documentary films.
Communications^Magazine Production Magazine Production Students will be responsible for writing, editing and publishing a professional online magazine.
Communications^Magazine Production Magazine Production Students will be responsible for writing, editing and publishing a professional online magazine.
Communications^Multimedia Projects Multimedia Projects This is an advanced multimedia class designed to give students experience creating an in-depth story using multimedia storytelling skills, with an emphasis on video and audio. The class will document a single semester-long theme. Students will generate their own stories and will collaborate to produce an online presentation of their work - an online 'magazine'. The class is a results oriented class. Students will be assessed primarily on the work they produced, closely replicating the real works environment of a newsroom. Students with strong multimedia, photography or writing skills are encouraged to take the class.
Communications^News Practicum News Practicum Students will work hand-in-hand with instructor and local newspaper editors to produce high-quality and timely stories that will be published. Stories will include news coverage and features on a wide variety of topics.
Communications^In Depth Photojournalism Projects In Depth Photojournalism Projects This is an advanced photojournalism course designed to prepare students for completing long-term group and individual photographic projects. The class is a results oriented class. Students will be assessed primarily on the work they produce closely replicating the environment of a photography staff for a print or online publication.
Communications^Wireless Devices and Global Markets Wireless Devices and Global Markets Wireless Devices and Global Markets is a new course that examines the market for wireless devices, from Android smartphones to iPhones and iPads. Students will learn about next generation smartphones and get to develop a unique product design concept.
Communications^Business Reporting Business Reporting Skills of business reporting and writing for the news media.
Communications^Business of Sports Journalism Business of Sports Journalism Contemporary issues where business and sports intersect in the college and professional ranks.
Communications^Foreign Study--Mass Communications Foreign Study--Mass Communications Study of mass communication systems and practices in selected foreign countries.
Accounting^Introductory Financial Accounting I Introductory Financial Accounting I Basic concepts, principles, and practices for the recording, summarizing, and interpreting of accounting data.
Accounting^Introductory Financial Accounting II Introductory Financial Accounting II Accounting for partnerships, corporations, cash flows, certain liabilities and assets, and the analysis of financial statements.
Accounting^Financial and Managerial Accounting for Decision Making Financial and Managerial Accounting for Decision Making Introduction to the role of accounting numbers in the process of managing a business and in investor decision making.
Accounting^Financial and Managerial Accounting for Decision Making Financial and Managerial Accounting for Decision Making Introduction to the role of accounting numbers in the process of managing a business and in investor decision making.
Accounting^Financial Statements and Management Decisions Financial Statements and Management Decisions Impact of management's financing, investing, and operating decisions on GAAP- based financial statements. Students who have passed ACNTG 310 or 311 may not take this course for credit.
Accounting^Federal Taxation I Federal Taxation I Study of income determination concepts for individuals and corporations, impact of taxation on decisions, elementary research techniques, and ethical standards.
Accounting^Accounting Systems and Control Accounting Systems and Control Introduction to accounting procedures to gather, to aggregate, and to report accounting data to managers and to external readers.
Accounting^Accounting Technology Lab Accounting Technology Lab Hands-on course to teach accounting software, applications of spreadsheets and databases in accounting, and surveying of underlying database theory.
Accounting^Cost Accounting Cost Accounting Accounting for manufacturing concerns; actual and standard cost systems, and managerial uses of cost data.
Accounting^Intermediate Accounting I Intermediate Accounting I Financial accounting methods, theory and concepts; analysis of problems in applying concepts to financial statements and asset accounts.
Accounting^Auditing Auditing Financial compliance, internal, and operational audits; standards and procedures; sampling; EDP auditing; professional issues; application of concepts through written responses.
Accounting^Auditing Auditing Financial, compliance, internal, and operational audits; standards and procedures; sampling; EDP auditing; professional issues; application of concepts through written responses.
Accounting^Managerial Accounting: Economic Perspective Managerial Accounting: Economic Perspective Accounting techniques as planning, control, and motivating devices in business and other organizations; accounting data for decision making and performance evaluation.
Accounting^Principles of Taxation I Principles of Taxation I Elements of tax policy and tax-planning concepts for personal and business decision making; with emphasis on taxation of individuals.
Accounting^Principles of Taxation II Principles of Taxation II Impact of federal tax structure on business decisions, research methodology, tax planning; ethical considerations of tax practice.
Accounting^Federal Taxation II Federal Taxation II An examination of the rules and forms used to compute the federal tax liability of corporations and partners.
Accounting^Accounting Practicum:  VITA Accounting Practicum:  VITA Introduces students to practical aspects of tax preparation through the IRS' VITA program and completion of a tax research project.
Accounting^Accounting Systems Accounting Systems Understanding flow and documentation of accounting information and internal controls in the context of accounting cycles.
Accounting^Financial Statement Analysis Financial Statement Analysis The exploration of conventional and advanced methods of analyzing financial statements, including the assessment of earnings quality.
Accounting^Advanced Auditing Advanced Auditing Examination of legal liability, EDP, statistical sampling, SEC reporting, internal control, and financial reporting in specialized industries.
Accounting^Accounting Information Systems Accounting Information Systems Systems analysis tools and techniques; internal control concepts; development of computer control procedures.
Accounting^Advanced Management Accounting Advanced Management Accounting Management accounting topics such as decision models, quantitative techniques, variance analysis, and their use in accounting.
Accounting^Advanced Accounting Advanced Accounting Accounting theory and practice for business combinations, branches, international operations, partnerships, consolidated financial statements, corporate liquidations, nonprofit organizations, estates, and trusts.
Accounting^International Accounting International Accounting Study of international accounting issues with emphasis on need, use, and interpretation of financial accounting required in global business environment.
Accounting^Governmental and Not-for-Profit Accounting Governmental and Not-for-Profit Accounting Provides an understanding of governmental and not-for-profit accounting theory, procedures, and financial statements.
Accounting^Intermediate Financial Accounting I Intermediate Financial Accounting I Theory and practice issues in income concepts and value measurement; GAAP; revenues, costs, assets, liabilities, and equities.
Accounting^Intermediate Financial Accounting II Intermediate Financial Accounting II Off-balance-sheet financing; special issues in cost capitalization, liabilities, and equities; matching; funds flow statements; statement analysis; inflation accounting.
Accounting^Advanced Financial Accounting Advanced Financial Accounting Reporting for multi-corporate enterprises, business combinations, quasi- reorganizations, and selected contemporary reporting problems.
Accounting^Financial Statement Analysis: Accounting Based Evaluation and Decision     Making Financial Statement Analysis: Accounting Based Evaluation and Decision     Making An accounting based evaluation and decision making approach to analyzing financial statements by studying business and firm valuation.
Accounting^Forensic Accounting Forensic Accounting Study of investigative accounting, consulting and litigation support activities undertaken in forensic accounting engagements.
Accounting^Seminar in Accounting Seminar in Accounting New trends and concepts in accounting; applications and impact on problem solving and decision making.
Accounting^Financial Statement Analysis Financial Statement Analysis The exploration of conventional and advanced methods of analyzing financial statements, including the assessment of earnings quality.
Accounting^Hot Tax Topics Hot Tax Topics The course will highlight principles and concepts in US international tax, trusts, and estates, and estate planning.
Accounting^Financial Reporting in Special Industries Financial Reporting in Special Industries Covers definitions, measurements and disclosures for revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities not traditionally covered by financial accounting courses.
Accounting^Corporate and Managerial Communication Corporate and Managerial Communication Development of communication skills required for business students interested in corporate accounting, finance, and/or consulting roles through case study, individual, and team presentations.
Management^Business Leadership Business Leadership The aim of this course is to introduce fundamental concepts of business management and leadership.
Management^Survey of Management Survey of Management Introduction to organizational factors relevant to management processes, including leadership, motivation, job design, technology, organizational design and environments, systems, change. May not be used to satisfy Penn State Business baccalaureate degree requirements. Not available to students who have taken B A 304 or MGMT 301.
Management^Survey of Management Survey of Management Introduction to organizational factors relevant to management processes, including leadership, motivation, job design, technology, organizational design and environments, systems, change. May not be used to satisfy Penn State Business baccalaureate degree requirements. Not available to students who have taken B A 304 or MGMT 301.
Management^Supervisory Management Supervisory Management Preparation for supervisory positions in formal organizations. Emphasis placed on the motivational aspects of the supervisor's job.
Management^Entrepreneurial Mindset Entrepreneurial Mindset This course provides the opportunity to learn to think like an entrepreneur in the broader context of social entrepreneurship, intrapreneurship, creative problem solving, opportunity recognition, and innovation.
Management^Basic Management Concepts Basic Management Concepts Study of fundamental principles and processes available to the understanding of management. Not available to students who have taken B A 304.
Management^Basic Management Concepts (Honors) Basic Management Concepts (Honors) Study of fundamental principles and processes available to the understanding of management.
Management^Basic Management Concepts Basic Management Concepts Examination of fundamental principles and processes applicable to the study of management. Not availabe to students who have taken B A 304.
Management^Leadership and Motivation Leadership and Motivation Applies organizational behavior theories, concepts, and skills to leading and motivating individuals and groups.
Management^Organizational Behavior and Design Organizational Behavior and Design Concepts, theories, and methods of managing people and designing organizations.
Management^Management and Organization Management and Organization Designing organizations to effectively manage new technologies, structures, and people in changing global contexts.
Management^Human Resource Management Human Resource Management Introduction to the strategic planning and implementation of human resource management, including staffing, development, appraisal, and rewards.
Management^Leadership and Change in Organizations Leadership and Change in Organizations This course focuses on concerns with understanding yourself as a leader in organizations-especially organizations undergoing change.
Management^Management Concepts & Leadership Management Concepts & Leadership This course will present key concepts for the design and management of modern organizations with an emphasis on effective leadership. Content areas will include decision making, ethics, strategy, strcuture, culture, group dyhnamics, teams, organizational conflict and organizational change.
Management^Leadership and Change in Organizations Leadership and Change in Organizations This is a course concerned with understanding oneself as a leader, particularly as a leader in organizations - and especially a leader of organizations undergoing change. It is a course that takes not only a personal view of leadership, but also an organizational view of leadership . The content of the course draws on academic and practitioner writings, cases, videos, exercises, etc., to help students understand the many facts of leadership and change in organizations. It focuses on: 1) developing a conceptual understanding of issues involved in leading people; 2) providing opportunities for direct or vicarious learning of leadership skills that have been identified by practicing managers as being most important to their performance; 3) giving insight into personal attitudes, beliefs, and leadership philosophy.
Management^Organization Development Organization Development A study of organizational change and methodologies related with change and improvement. Examination of planned change on processes, strategies, people and culture in organizations.
Management^Contemporary Issues in Management Contemporary Issues in Management Advanced treatment of topics of current managerial significance. Issues examined will differ by instructor, section, and semester. Consult departmental office.
Management^Project Management for Engineers Project Management for Engineers The course provides a real-time experience to students in engineering and engineering technology in project management with a focus on leadership behavior and decision making.
Management^Project Management Project Management A problem-based, interdisciplinary course in project management skills and techniques needed to manage projects in a modern business environment.
Management^Project Portfolio Management and Organizations Project Portfolio Management and Organizations An advanced course in project management focusing on portfolio planning and control within the context of specific organizational challenges.
Management^Project Planning and Resource Management Project Planning and Resource Management Advanced course in project management focusing on a more in-depth approach to project planning and scheduling and resource management.
Management^Negotiation and Conflict Management Negotiation and Conflict Management An exploration of the sources of interpersonal conflict and strategies of resolution in the managerial context.
Management^Interpersonal Relationships in Organizations Interpersonal Relationships in Organizations Developing individual skills in interpersonal and group settings and experience-based and conceptual training in relating effectively to other people.
Management^New Venture Creation New Venture Creation Via problem-based learning, teams define new business ventures to meet current market needs, develop business plans, and present to investors.
Management^Invention Commercialization Invention Commercialization Working with Penn State inventions selected by the Intellectual Property Office, student teams define an optimum commercialization path each technology.
Management^Managing an Entrepreneurial Start-Up Company Managing an Entrepreneurial Start-Up Company Exploration of the tensions and experiences of starting and growing a new company.
Management^Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management Entrepreneurship, new ventures, and management of small firms.
Management^Small Business Field Study Small Business Field Study Supervised field study with a small firm.
Management^Leadership and Team Building Leadership and Team Building Team-based learning approach to developing conceptual knowledge, skills sets, and personal competencies needed for leading and managing organizations.
Management^Advanced Human Resource Management Advanced Human Resource Management In depth study of human resource management and personnel administration functions and processes.
Management^Organizational Staffing and Development Organizational Staffing and Development This course focuses on the skills and methods managers need to manage staffing and development activities in organizations.
Management^Performance Management Performance Management This course focuses on skills and methods managers need to enhance the contribution of employees to organizational performance and effectiveness.
Management^Managing a Diverse Workforce Managing a Diverse Workforce This course focuses on developing knowledge and skills for managing demographic, functional, occupational and identity-based differences within and among organizations.
Management^Labor Management Relations Labor Management Relations Study of the key concepts and processes involved in current American labor/management relations.
Management^Business, Ethics, and Society Business, Ethics, and Society Advanced examination of social, ethical, legal, economic, equity, environmental, public policy, and political influences on managerial decisions and strategies.
Management^Creativity and Innovation Creativity and Innovation Analysis of the process of innovation in organzations and of how creativity and other variables influence the process.
Management^International Management International Management Examines issues of nations and cultures including motivation, communication, negotiation, leadership, ethics and social responsibility, and women in management.
Management^Organizational Learning and Knowledge Management Organizational Learning and Knowledge Management Examination of the social processes through which organizations continuously develop, acquire, interpret, and apply information and knowledge for performance enhancement and continuous improvement.
Management^Strategic Management Strategic Management Issues that influence the competitive performance of the firm are identified and examined.
Management^Strategic Management and Business Policy Strategic Management and Business Policy Study of strategic management and business policy formulation and implementation processes.
Management^Strategic Product Development Strategic Product Development Study of an organization, industry, and evaluation of the introduction to a new product. Preparation of proposal for industry product.
Management^Product Realization Capstone Product Realization Capstone Study of an organization, industry, and evaluation of the introduction of a new product. Preparation of proposal for industry product.
Management^Compliance and Fairness in Organizations Compliance and Fairness in Organizations Compliance with employment laws with respect to managing human resources and fair treatment in employer-employee relationships.
Management^Seminar in Management Seminar in Management A capstone course in management for students of high academic achievement. Emphasis on in-depth research of current interest.
Management^Logistics-An Overview and Application Logistics-An Overview and Application Overview of logistics strategies across supply chains including investory management, warehousing, transportation, purchasing and their applications.
Finance^Introduction to Finance Introduction to Finance The nature, scope, and interdependence of the institutional and individual participants in the financial system. May not be used to satisfy Penn State Business baccalaureate degree requirements. Not available to students who have taken B A 301 or FIN 301.
Finance^Personal Finance Personal Finance Personal management of budgets, bank accounts, loans, credit buying, insurance, real estate and security buying. May not be used to satisfy Smeal College baccalaureate degree requirements.
Finance^Personal Finance: Wealth Management Personal Finance: Wealth Management Personal finance with a focus on wealth management and retirement planning along with investment securities, tax strategies, personal financial needs, and long-term care.
Finance^Corporation Finance Corporation Finance Nature of finance function; risk and return concepts; working capital; dividend policies; mergers; security markets; acquisition and management of corporate capital; analysis of operations, forecasting capital requirements; raising capital; and planning profits. Available to Baccalaureate students only. Not available to students who have taken B A 301.
Finance^Corporation Finance (Honors) Corporation Finance (Honors) Review of corporate finance concepts including financial statements, ratio analysis, financial planning, time value of money, securities valuation, and capital budgeting.
Finance^Introductory Financial Modeling Introductory Financial Modeling This course applies spreadsheets to build financial models and solve numerically intensive problems in finance.
Finance^Financial Management of the Business Enterprise Financial Management of the Business Enterprise Development of advanced practices of financial management and their application to decision making in business firm.
Finance^Financial Management of the Business Enterprise (Honors) Financial Management of the Business Enterprise (Honors) Development of advanced practices of financial management and their application to decision making in a business firm.
Finance^Financial Management of the Business Enterprise Financial Management of the Business Enterprise Development of advanced practices of financial management and their application to decision making in a business firm.
Finance^Investment Valuation Investment Valuation Approaches to investment strategy, investment decisions; valuation of corporate securities, including the impact of dividend policy and capital structure.
Finance^Personal Financial Planning Personal Financial Planning Developing financial plans including cash budgets, credit purchases, investments, and insurance.
Finance^Insurance Planning Insurance Planning Introduction to personal insurance including homeowner's, auto, life, disability, health, and Social Security.
Finance^Nittany Lion Fund - Associate Fund Manager Practicum Nittany Lion Fund - Associate Fund Manager Practicum Introduction to working with the Nittany Lion Fund. Students work on projects such as investor reports and earnings reports along with assisting Nittany Lion Fund Managers with the development of stock pitches based on market insights.
Finance^Advanced Financial Management Advanced Financial Management An examination of the development and application of decision rules for major long-term financial and investment problems of the firm.
Finance^Security Analysis and Portfolio Management Security Analysis and Portfolio Management Advanced valuation theory; fundamentals of security analysis; portfolio construction and management.
Finance^Security Analysis and Portfolio Management (Honors) Security Analysis and Portfolio Management (Honors) Advanced valuation theory; fundamentals of security analysis; portfolio construction and management.
Finance^Multinational Financial Management Multinational Financial Management Analysis of the international aspects of managerial finance; emphasis on the impact of the international financial environment on firm operations.
Finance^Financial Markets and Institutions Financial Markets and Institutions Functional analysis of major credit institutions; sources and uses of funds; impact of government regulation.
Finance^Financial Markets and Institutions (Honors) Financial Markets and Institutions (Honors) Introduction to bonds, equities, derivatives, and financial institutions including insurance, pension funds and mutual funds.
Finance^Real Estate Finance and Investment Real Estate Finance and Investment The sources and uses of credit; instruments and methods of financing; the theory and practice or real estate investment analysis.
Finance^Derivative Markets Derivative Markets Functions, techniques, and impact of speculation conducted through forward markets; the nature of speculative transactions, pricing, and methods of trading.
Finance^Commercial Bank Management Commercial Bank Management Fundamental principles underlying management of a commercial bank; capital funds; asset and liability management; value maximization; legal and operational constraints.
Finance^Risk Management of Financial Institutions Risk Management of Financial Institutions Measuring and managing risk faced by financial institutions.
Finance^Financial Trading and Applications Financial Trading and Applications This course focuses on financial modeling and analysis of trading strategies. Bloomberg, Reuters, spreadsheets and trading simulations are used extensively.
Finance^Advanced Financial Modeling Advanced Financial Modeling Develop financial models using spreadsheets, VBA programming, and trading room applications such as Bloomberg and @Risk.
Finance^Introduction to Energy Finance Introduction to Energy Finance This course provides an introduction to the physical and financial energy markets, along with concepts important to managing risk.
Finance^Advanced Energy Finance Advanced Energy Finance This course provides an investigation of energy products; energy commodity price formation; credit, counterparty, country risk assessment, and ethics.
Finance^Investment and Portfolio Analysis Investment and Portfolio Analysis Investment and risk, types of security investments, sources of investment information, the broker, the stock market, portfolio management.
Finance^Derivative Securities Derivative Securities Introduction to futures contracts and options, leading to a working understanding of their importance in financial management applications.
Finance^Estate Planning Estate Planning Liquidity planning, titling and transfer of property, trusts, federal unified tax system, gifting, incapacity planning, legal documents.
Finance^Retirement Planning Retirement Planning Retirement planning: qualified and non-qualified plans, characteristics, provisions, regulations administration, application approach with case studies.
Finance^Intermediate Financial Management Intermediate Financial Management Case studies are used to develop skills in solving a variety of financial management problems.
Finance^International Capital Markets International Capital Markets This course develops understanding of international capital markets by striking a balance between institutional details, theoretical foundation and practical application.
Finance^Real Estate Financial Analysis Real Estate Financial Analysis Debt and equity financing, capital structure, "creative financing," risk analysis, corporate asset management.
Finance^Portfolio Management and Analysis Portfolio Management and Analysis Investement policy and process, modern portfolio theory, portfolio construction, and portfolio performance measurement and evaluation.
Finance^Real Estate and Capital Markets Real Estate and Capital Markets Analysis of publicly-traded real estate of both the equity,  and debt  sides. The course also provides international perspectives.
Finance^International Finance International Finance Financial decision making in an international environment. Emphasis on topics relevant to small businesses and entrepreneurs.
Finance^Financial Decision Making Financial Decision Making Problems and cases in financial decision making for non-financial corporations and financial institutions.
Finance^Advanced Financial Analysis Advanced Financial Analysis Capstone course integrating financial analysis coursework. This course is based on the case study method which provides a challenging setting in which to apply business concepts.
Finance^Seminar in Finance Seminar in Finance In-depth study of new trends, concepts, and practices in financial or portfolio management.
Finance^Financial Planning Capstone Financial Planning Capstone Critical thinking and decision-making about personal financial planning topics in the context of the financial planning process.
Finance^Research Projects Research Projects Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Finance^Research Projects Research Projects Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Finance^Nittany Lion Fund -- Lead Fund Manager Practicum Nittany Lion Fund -- Lead Fund Manager Practicum Advanced work with the Nittany Lion Fund. Lead Fund Managers are accountable for sector and stock performance as well as reports. Students delegate work to Associate Fund Managers while focusing a great amount of attention to all aspects of stock pitches, weekly and quarterly reports, along with conducting weekly training session for new analysts.
Finance^Nittany Lion Fund - Executive Board Practicum Nittany Lion Fund - Executive Board Practicum Oversight of the Nittany Lion Fund  and its overall performance. Executive Board members and Directors are accountable for all aspects of the Nittany Lion Fund. Students interact with investors and are responsible for delivering professionally developed performance reports, weekly information updates, and annual shareholder meetings. Executive Board members assume specific duties within the NLF associated with their position, along with a shared responsibility for being a spokesperson for the fund.
Finance^Financial Ethics Financial Ethics Explore ethical standards for financial analysts and portfolio managers.
Finance^International Finance International Finance This course provides an understanding of the basic terminology, structure, and importance of international finance for corporations. It will also help enhance analytical and critical thinking skills. Topics of study include foreign exchange , FX markets, FX instruments, FX risk, hedging of these risks, international debt and equity markets, etc.
Finance^Fixed Income Securities Fixed Income Securities Study of financial analysis, portfolio management, risk management, and actuarial science.
Finance^Health Care Finance Health Care Finance The course objective is to provide the student with an understanding of both the macroeconomic environment in which healthcare financial functions must operate as well as the specific financial functions that are relevant to operations of the healthcare enterprise.
Veterinary^VB VB No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Entrepreneurship^Principles of Entrepreneurship Principles of Entrepreneurship Overview of the fundamental principles and processes of entrepreneurship including idea generation and opportunity analysis.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurship and New Venture Creation Entrepreneurship and New Venture Creation Explores the process for starting and growing a new venture including the development of a business plan.
Entrepreneurship^Financing Entrepreneurial Ventures Financing Entrepreneurial Ventures Overview of alternative forms of financing including seed capital, valuing a company, going public, partnerships, and acquisitions.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Marketing Entrepreneurial Marketing Principles of Internet marketing and strategies for marketing new ventures on the Web.
Entrepreneurship^Leadership and Growth of New Ventures Leadership and Growth of New Ventures Leadership of an entrepreneurial organization, including organizational effectiveness, stages of entrepreneurial growth, strategies for the future, and developing people.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurship and New Product Development Entrepreneurship and New Product Development Examines the process of designing, testing and launching new products, and developing a strategy for commercialization of the technology.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurship and Franchising Entrepreneurship and Franchising Overview of the entire franchising process with a focus on licensing and distributorship, trade marks, strategy, and growing the enterprise.
Entrepreneurship^E-Recycling and Product Design in Kenya E-Recycling and Product Design in Kenya This coure explores the topics of electronic recycling and new product design in Kenya.
Entrepreneurship^Sheetz Fellows Program Sheetz Fellows Program This course is an introduction to the Sheetz Fellow Program. It prepares students with an entrepreneurial mindset for leadership roles by providing them witn mentoring opportunities, academic challenges, and resources. Topic areas include; servant leadership, business networking, social networking, study abroad exploration, and resume development. The Sheetz Fellows experience offers "an education for leadership" in the best tradition of the Business program. it molds well-rounded students who are ready for the world and prepares students for citizenship and for life-long learning.
Chemical Engineering^CH CH No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Computer Science^Object-Oriented Software Design and Construction Object-Oriented Software Design and Construction Design, documentation, testing, and construction of software using software engineering strategies embodied in object-oriented programming languages.
Computer Science^Introduction to Software Engineering Studio Introduction to Software Engineering Studio Provides an introduction to the principles of software engineering and includes complementary instruction in one programming language.
Computer Science^Software Engineering Software Engineering Software engineering principles including life cycle, dependability, process modeling, project management, requires specification, design analysis, implementation, testing, and maintenance.
Computer Science^Software Architecture Software Architecture The analysis and design of software systems using canonical design patterns.
Computer Science^Software Verification, Validation, and Testing Software Verification, Validation, and Testing Introduction to methods of software verification, validation, and testing; mathematical foundations of testing, reliability models; statistical testing.
Computer Science^Embedded Real Time Systems Embedded Real Time Systems The design and implementation of real time systems.
Computer Science^Web Services Web Services This course introduces the students to a contemporary computing paradigm called "service-oriented computing."
Computer Science^Software Engineering Design Software Engineering Design Concepts of engineering ethics, economy, and project management, senior capstone project selection, and technical communication skills.
Computer Science^Software Engineering Project Software Engineering Project Capstone group design projects in software engineering.
Computer Science^Software Documentation Software Documentation Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject that may be topical or of special interest.
Computer Science^Tools and Processes for Software Engineering Tools and Processes for Software Engineering Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject that may be topical or of special interest.
Computer Science^Agile Processes Agile Processes Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject that may be topical or of special interest.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Explorer--First-Year Seminar Aerospace Explorer--First-Year Seminar First-Year Seminar explores aerodynamics, structural mechanics, flight mechanics, rotorcraft systems, high performance computers, air/space propulsion, and space systems.
Aerospace Engineering^Space Science and Technology Space Science and Technology The science and technology of space exploration and exploitation; physical principles; research and development; history, space policy, and social implications.
Aerospace Engineering^First Year Seminar - Hands on Helicopter First Year Seminar - Hands on Helicopter Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject which may be topical or of special interest.
Aerospace Engineering^First Year Seminar-Hands on Helicopter First Year Seminar-Hands on Helicopter Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject which may be topical or of special interest.
Aerospace Engineering^Flight Vehicle Design and Fabrication I Flight Vehicle Design and Fabrication I Integrated project management, design, fabrication, testing, and flight evaluation of an advanced composite flight vehicle.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Structures Aerospace Structures Aerospace structural design concepts, flight safety. Stiffness, strength, stability of thin-walled structures under combined loads. Energy methods, finite element analysis.
Aerospace Engineering^Dynamics and Control of Aerospace Systems Dynamics and Control of Aerospace Systems Vibrations of single, multiple, and infinite degree-of-freedom systems; operational methods applied to aerospace vehicles; design of controllers.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Technology Laboratory Aerospace Technology Laboratory Experiments in measurement systems, aerodynamics, aerospace structures, dynamics and control, and propulsion, technical report writing and presentations.
Aerospace Engineering^Aeronautics Aeronautics Lift and drag characteristics of aircraft; propulsion systems; airplane performance; introduction to stability and control.
Aerospace Engineering^Mechanics of Fluids Mechanics of Fluids Kinetics and dynamics of fluids; perfect fluid theory using complex variables; introduction to viscous flow theory; fundamentals of compressible flow.
Aerospace Engineering^Mechanics of Fluids Mechanics of Fluids Kinetics and dynamics of fluids; perfect fluid theory using complex variables; introduction to viscous flow theory; fundamentals of compressible flow.
Aerospace Engineering^Astronautics Astronautics Introduction to space and space flight; laws of particle mechanics; orbits and trajectories; space vehicles and propulsion.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerodynamics I Aerodynamics I Fluid statics and kinematics; fluid dynamics of inviscid and viscous flows; Navier-Stokes equations; introduction to boundary layers.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerodynamics II Aerodynamics II Fluid mechanics of viscous and compressible flows, laminar boundary layers, turbulent flows, isentropic flows, shock waves, supersonic life and drag.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Analysis Aerospace Analysis Mathematical methods applied to aerospace engineering: Fourier series, ordinary and partial differential equations, complex variables, numerical methods, data analysis.
Aerospace Engineering^Spacecraft Design--Preliminary Spacecraft Design--Preliminary Conceptual and preliminary design of a spacecraft, its constituent subsystems, and related systems, to satisfy a given set of specifications.
Aerospace Engineering^Spacecraft Design--Detailed Spacecraft Design--Detailed Detailed design of the constituent subsystems and related support systems for a spacecraft.
Aerospace Engineering^Aircraft Design--Preliminary Aircraft Design--Preliminary Conceptual and preliminary design of an aircraft, its constituent subsystems, and related systems, to satisfy a given set of specifications.
Aerospace Engineering^Aircraft Design--Detailed Aircraft Design--Detailed Detailed design of the constituent subsystems and related support systems for an aircraft.
Aerospace Engineering^Flight Vehicle Design and Fabrication II Flight Vehicle Design and Fabrication II Project management, design, fabrication, aerodynamic and structural testing, and flight evaluation of an advanced composite flight vehicle.
Aerospace Engineering^Experimental Methods and Projects Experimental Methods and Projects Experimental methods involving a variety of aerospace engineering topics; teams of students focus on adanced measurement techniques and project engineering.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerodynamics of V/STOL Aircraft Aerodynamics of V/STOL Aircraft Rotary wing aircraft; VTOL and STOL performance; propeller-wing combinations; jet flap; high lift devices.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Propulsion Aerospace Propulsion Analysis and performance characteristics of reciprocating engine, turbo-jet, turbo-prop, turbo-fan, ram-jets, and chemical rockets. Aerothermodynamics of inlets, combustors, and turbomachinery.
Aerospace Engineering^Turbulent Flow Turbulent Flow Homogeneous turbulence; spectral transfer of energy, viscous dissipation; turbulent shear flow: mixing-length theory, eddy viscosity, scaling laws, energy budget.
Aerospace Engineering^Stability and Control of Aircraft Stability and Control of Aircraft Static and dynamic stability and control of aircraft; open and closed loop systems.
Aerospace Engineering^Principles of Flight Testing Principles of Flight Testing In-flight and analytical studies of airplane performance, stability, and control; reduction of data; instrumentation; flight test techniques.
Aerospace Engineering^Introduction to Numerical Methods in Fluid Dynamics Introduction to Numerical Methods in Fluid Dynamics Finite difference methods applied to solving viscid/inviscid fluid dynamics problems, error control, numerical stability.
Aerospace Engineering^Advanced Computer Programming Advanced Computer Programming Engineering and scientific programming topics: object oriented programming, parallel programming, and various modern languages .
Aerospace Engineering^Theory of Flight Theory of Flight Advanced wing and airfoil theory, conformal mapping, slender body theory.
Aerospace Engineering^Space Propulsion and Power Systems Space Propulsion and Power Systems Analysis and performance of chemical and nuclear rockets, electric propulsion systems. Introduction to solar, chemical, thermoelectric, and nuclear power sources.
Aerospace Engineering^Introduction to Software Engineering for Aerospace Engineers Introduction to Software Engineering for Aerospace Engineers Software engineering for safety- and mission-critical systems, including requirements, management, processes, designs, programming, validation/ verification, and other aspects of software development.
Aerospace Engineering^Orbit and Attitude Control of Spacecraft Orbit and Attitude Control of Spacecraft Principles of mechanics and vector analysis applied to basic concepts of satellite motion and control, rocket ballistics, and gyroscopic instruments.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Control Systems Aerospace Control Systems Design and analysis of feedback control systems for aerospace applications; stability, root locus, time- and frequency-domain, state-space methods.
Aerospace Engineering^Advanced Aerospace Structures Advanced Aerospace Structures Design and analysis of aerospace structures. Plates and sandwich panels; composite materials; structural dynamics; aeroelasticity; damage tolerance.
Aerospace Engineering^Composites Processing Composites Processing An introduction to the principles of mechanics governing manufacturing, computer-aided design, and testing of composite materials and structures.
Aerospace Engineering^Introduction to Plasmas Introduction to Plasmas Plasma oscillations; collisional phenomena; transport properties; orbit theory; typical electric discharge phenomena.
Aerospace Engineering^Space Astronomy and Introduction to Space Science Space Astronomy and Introduction to Space Science The physical nature of the objects in the solar system; the earth's atmosphere, ionosphere, radiation belts, magnetosphere, and orbital mechanics.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Undergraduate Thesis Aerospace Undergraduate Thesis Individual problem investigations reported in written thesis and seminar lectures. Cooperative research with faculty guidance on topics of current interest.
Aerospace Engineering^Aerospace Undergraduate Thesis Aerospace Undergraduate Thesis Individual problem investigations reported in written thesis and seminar lectures. Cooperative research with faculty guidance on topics of current interest.
Aerospace Engineering^Wind Energy Engineering & Projects Wind Energy Engineering & Projects This course will provide an overview of the wind energy enterprise as the nation aims to achieve 20% wind by 2030 . This industry has a rapidly growing need for workforce, especially those trained in the engineering of wind energy systems.
Aerospace Engineering^Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) Design Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) Design Students taking this course will design and build on autonomous underwater vehicle  capable of carrying out simple tasks  in water depths less than 30". Component technologies include underwater proposers, vehicle attitude control, acoustic and optical sensing, ballast control for vehicle stability, beason-based position estimation, simple manipulators, power system design and control.
Aerospace Engineering^Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) Design Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) Design Students taking this course will design and build an autonomous underwater vehicle  capable of carrying out simple tasks  in water depths less than 30'. Component technologies include underwater proposers, vehicle attitude control, acoustic and optical sensing, ballast control for vehicle stability, beacon-based position estimation, simple maniulators, power system design and control.
Aerospace Engineering^Spacecraft/Environment Interactions Spacecraft/Environment Interactions Formal courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject which may be topical or of special interest.
Astronomy^Astronomical Universe Astronomical Universe The development of modern understanding of the astronomical universe from planets and stars to galaxies and cosmology. Student who have passed ASTRO 005, ASTRO 006, or ASTRO 010 may not take this course for credit.
Astronomy^Astronomical Universe Astronomical Universe The development of modern understanding of the astronomical universe from planets and stars to galaxies and cosmology. Students who have passed ASTRO 005, ASTRO 006, or ASTRO 010 may not take this course for credit.
Astronomy^The Sky and Planets The Sky and Planets The development of our modern understanding of the visible sky and planetary systems. Students who have passed ASTRO 001 or ASTRO 010 may not take this course for credit.
Astronomy^Stars, Galaxies, and the Universe Stars, Galaxies, and the Universe The development of our modern understanding of stars, galaxies, and the astronomical universe. Students who have passed ASTRO 001 or ASTRO 010 may not take this course for credit.
Astronomy^Elementary Astronomy Elementary Astronomy Introductory survey of modern astronomy from planets and stars to galaxies and the universe. Students who have passed ASTRO 001, ASTRO 005, or ASTRO 006 may not take this course for credit. Students may not receive General Education credit for ASTRO 010 unless they also take ASTRO 011.
Astronomy^Elementary Astronomy Laboratory Elementary Astronomy Laboratory Selected experiments and explorations to illustrate major astronomical principles and techniques. Telescopes observations of planets, stars and nebulae.
Astronomy^First-Year Astronomy Seminar First-Year Astronomy Seminar Introduction to the study of modern astronomy through discussions, activities, and writing.
Astronomy^The Big Bang Universe The Big Bang Universe Exploration of cosmology, birth, and ultimate fate of the universe; origin of galaxies, quasars, and dark matter. For non-science majors.
Astronomy^Black Holes in the Universe Black Holes in the Universe The predicted properties of black holes and the astronomical evidence for their existence are investigated in the context of modern ideas about space, time, and gravity.
Astronomy^Life in the Universe Life in the Universe The problem of the existence of life beyond Earth is investigated, drawing from recent research in astronomy and other fields. For non-science majors.
Astronomy^Astronomical Methods and the Solar System Astronomical Methods and the Solar System Physical processes and observational techniques in astronomical systems, characteristics of the sun, planets, and moons.
Astronomy^Astronomy of the Distant Universe Astronomy of the Distant Universe Observed properties and astrophysical understanding of stars, stellar evolution, galaxies, the large-scale universe, and cosmology.
Astronomy^Introduction to Astronomy for Educators Introduction to Astronomy for Educators Prospective teachers will study astronomy in ways that help them understand how astronomers investigate the Solar System and beyond.
Astronomy^Observational Astronomy Laboratory Observational Astronomy Laboratory Basic observational astronomy techniques introduced through observational exercises, lab experiments, and lectures on relevant statistical techniques.
Astronomy^Fundamentals of Planetary Science and Astronomy Fundamentals of Planetary Science and Astronomy Overview of the techniques used and results from studies of the Solar System, stars, and galaxies.
Astronomy^Astronomical Telescopes, Techniques, and Data Analysis Astronomical Telescopes, Techniques, and Data Analysis Properties and use of optical telescopes, imaging and spectroscopy, multi-wavelength techniques, data analysis and statistics, practical research methods.
Astronomy^Computational Astrophysics Computational Astrophysics Applications of numerical methods and computer programming to astrophysics, including stellar physics and cosmology.
Astronomy^Stellar Structure and Evolution Stellar Structure and Evolution Theory of Stellar structure and evolution including energy generation and transport and an examination of stellar models.
Astronomy^Planets and Planetary System Formation Planets and Planetary System Formation Solar system properties, star formation, protoplanetary disks and planet formation, solar system model, extrasolar planets, and astrobiology.
Astronomy^Introduction to Astrophysics Introduction to Astrophysics Theoretical investigation of physical processes in astronomical objects and systems; modern physical interpretation of astronomical phenomena.
Astronomy^Astronomical Techniques Astronomical Techniques Practical methods of modern observational astronomy, detectors, filters, instrumentation for both ground-based and space observations, and data analysis.
Astronomy^Stars and Galaxies Stars and Galaxies Astronomical studies concerning the distribution and evolution of stars and gas in our and other galaxies.
Astronomy^Nebulae, Galaxies, and Cosmology Nebulae, Galaxies, and Cosmology Emission-line spectroscopy, structure and evolution of galaxies, physics of galactic nuclei and quasars, observational cosmology.
Astronomy^Introduction to High-Energy Astronomy Introduction to High-Energy Astronomy The study of black holes, neutron stars, white dwarfs, supernova remnants, and extragalactic objects through x-ray and gamma ray observations.
Astronomy^Astrostatistics Astrostatistics An introduction to a wide range of topics in statistical inference and applied statistical techniques designed for the physical scientists who collects real--numbered data.
Astronomy^  Last Import from UCM: February 7, 2015 3:00 AM
Art History^Introduction to the Visual Arts Introduction to the Visual Arts Introduction to the media, elements, function, making, and meaning of visual arts today and in diverse historical and cultural contexts.
Art History^Interactive Learning and Web-Design Interactive Learning and Web-Design Introduce students to research on-line, preparing verbal, visual and other elements for presentation of outcomes and posting them to the Internet.
Art History^Visual Images on the Web Visual Images on the Web Introduce students to using visual images for communication on the World Wide Web.
Art History^Introduction to Visual Studies Introduction to Visual Studies Introduction to visual studies; pictorial space and the principles of visual organization.
Art History^Introduction to Metal Arts Introduction to Metal Arts Introduction for non-art majors to fundamental jewelry making and small-scale metalsmithing processes including fabrication, surface treatment, and finishing of metalwork.
Art History^Introduction to Drawing Introduction to Drawing Introductory experience in making of art through drawing media; designed for non-majors seeking general overview of studio practice.
Art History^Introduction to Sculpture Introduction to Sculpture Introduction to sculpture for non-art majors consisting of lectures/basic studio work coordinated to cover broad range of processes.
Art History^Introduction to Printmaking Introduction to Printmaking Instruction and practice in elementary printmaking and papermaking processes.
Art History^Introduction to Painting Introduction to Painting Introductory experience in making of art through painting media; designed for non-majors seeking a general overview of studio practice.
Art History^Introduction to Ceramics Introduction to Ceramics Introduction to the concepts and techniques fundamental to the making of pottery and ceramic sculpture.
Art History^Concepts and Creation in the Visual Arts Concepts and Creation in the Visual Arts A study of the personal and cultural foundations of artistic creation and practice of creative production in the art studio.
Art History^Introduction to Web Design Introduction to Web Design A beginning level course in Web Design, with emphasis on designing with standards to assure accessibility and effective communication.
Art History^Beginning Computer Aided Design for Artists Beginning Computer Aided Design for Artists ART 102 explores the computer as artistic media. Student creations are realized through 3D printing, vinyl cutting, and laser engraving.
Art History^Ideas as Visual Images Ideas as Visual Images Introduction to the ideational relationships among subject, form, and content in visual images.
Art History^Ideas as Objects Ideas as Objects An introduction to the relationship between ideas and the creation of three-dimensional objects.
Art History^Commentary on Art Commentary on Art An introduction to verbal commentary, both oral and written, about art. The development of critical and expressive skills given emphasis.
Art History^Artistic Concepts of Space Artistic Concepts of Space A studio course that utilizes lecture and varied media experiences to investigate space as artistic expression.
Art History^Artistic Concepts of Form Artistic Concepts of Form A studio course that utilizes lecture and varied media experiences to investigate form in artistic expression.
Art History^The Digital Medium The Digital Medium A studio course where the computer is introduced as an artistic media.
Art History^Foreign Studies--Art Foreign Studies--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Art History^Intro to Digital Arts: Computer Graphics Intro to Digital Arts: Computer Graphics Art 201 is a course introducing digital art, design, and new media concepts using graphic applications on the computer.
Art History^The Art of Web Design The Art of Web Design This course will focus on utilizing graphic formats ideal for web-based work and designing with web standards.
Art History^Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism An introduction to the language, aesthetics and cultural impacts of digital art and design in contemporary society.
Art History^Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism An introduction to the language, aesthetics, and cultural impacts of digital art and design in contemporary society.
Art History^Metal Art/Technology I Metal Art/Technology I Introduction to current and emerging metal art technologies and processes as medium for conceptual, aesthetic, and functional artworks.
Art History^Figure Drawing Figure Drawing Drawing from life. Emphasis on developing the ability to comprehend and record the human figure.
Art History^Drawing: Techniques, Materials, and Tools Drawing: Techniques, Materials, and Tools Drawing with an emphasis on organization and the development of drawing skills through a variety of techniques, materials, and tools.
Art History^Beginning Sculpture Beginning Sculpture An introduction to sculpture consisting of lectures, demonstrations, and basic studio work coordinated to cover a broad range of processes.
Art History^Beginning Printmaking Beginning Printmaking An introduction to printmaking consisting of lectures, demonstrations, and studio work to cover a broad range of processes.
Art History^Beginning Oil Painting Beginning Oil Painting The materials and techniques of painting in oil and their uses in creative painting on panels and canvas.
Art History^Artistic Concepts of Color Artistic Concepts of Color A studio course that utilizes lecture and various media to investigate color as artistic expression.
Art History^Artistic Concepts of Light Artistic Concepts of Light A studio course that utilizes lecture and varied media experiences to investigate light as artistic expression.
Art History^Methods and Materials I Methods and Materials I A studio course that focuses on specific media or techniques reflecting varied faculty expertise.
Art History^Beginning Ceramics Beginning Ceramics The fundamentals of ceramics, throwing, hand-building, and glazing; acquainting the student with ceramic materials, techniques, and philosophy.
Art History^Beginning Photography Beginning Photography Fundamental techniques and approaches to the art of photography utilizing digital photographic technologies; digital cameral required.
Art History^Art Teaching Experience Art Teaching Experience This teaching assistant will aid in ART 168 during lab time. Students will be instructal support for the 3D animation and 2D design in each section.
Art History^Introduction to Scripting Introduction to Scripting Students are introduced to object-oriented programming fundamentals for the production of expressive, interactive experiences such as animations, interfaces and games.
Art History^Introduction to Scripting Introduction to Scripting Students are introduced to object oriented programming fundamentals for production of expressive, interactive experiences such as animations, interfaces and games.
Art History^Water Media Water Media The purpose of this course is to develop skills in a variety of water media. In an experimental atmosphere, students are encouraged to develop their personal vision through the process of painting with aqueous materials such as water color, ink, acrylic, egg temera and natural pigments.
Art History^Introduction to Artist Books Introduction to Artist Books This studio course provides students with hands-on activities to promote visual literacy and sensitivity to the fine art of bookmaking.
Art History^Introduction to Artist Books Introduction to Artist Books This sutdio course provides students with hands-on activities to promote visual literacy and sensitivity to the fine art of bookmaking.
Art History^Time, Objects and Space Time, Objects and Space This course will be an exploration of the crossroads where objects and time- based medias meet. Students will be building sculptural objects and combining them in interesting ways with video, sound, animation, performative elements and/or anything else they can think of. How do you embody sound? How do you bring video out of the screen and into our space?
Art History^Paper in Particular Paper in Particular This introductory level course will cover papermaking and printmaking to be used with the idea of the multiple in student created artwork.
Art History^Art in the Anthropocene Art in the Anthropocene This course will address questions of aesthetics and art practice in the current age, when humans are the primary force shaping the Earth.
Art History^First Year Seminar School of Visual Arts First Year Seminar School of Visual Arts To facilitate transition of new students through active engagement and introduction to the School of Visual Arts, University and campus resources.
Art History^Foreign Study--Art Foreign Study--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Art History^Studio Apprenticeship Studio Apprenticeship Direct involvement in the creative process of the artist-teacher in the studio environment.
Art History^Digital Portfolio Elements Digital Portfolio Elements The creation of more involved digital projects that may ultimately be included in the students' digital portfolio.
Art History^Computer 3-D: Modeling, Rendering, and Animation Computer 3-D: Modeling, Rendering, and Animation A studio course introducing 3-d computer generated artwork and content creation using modeling, rendering, and animation applications on the computer.
Art History^New Media Art: New Media Studio New Media Art: New Media Studio A studio course concentrating on digital art and new media authoring practices.
Art History^Video Art and Time-Based Media Video Art and Time-Based Media A studio course concentrating on video art, new media, and experimental time based work.
Art History^Metal Art/Technology II Metal Art/Technology II Further exploration of current and emerging metal art technologies and processes as medium for conceptual, aesthetic, and functional artworks.
Art History^New Media Art: Game Art New Media Art: Game Art A studio course concentrating on game art and new media authoring practices.
Art History^Physical Computing Physical Computing A studio course concentrating on interactive physical systems using software/sensors that can sense and respond to the analog world.
Art History^Advanced Drawing Advanced Drawing Drawing for art majors; emphasis on sustained individual approaches based on figurative and nonfigurative sources.
Art History^Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Fabrication and Mixed-media Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Fabrication and Mixed-media Development of technical and conceptual skills through metal fabrication, weld ing, and mixed-media processes.
Art History^Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Casting and Mold-Making Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Casting and Mold-Making Development of technical and conceptual skills through metal casting and mold- making processes.
Art History^The Body: Issues and Objects The Body: Issues and Objects Creating representations of the human body and related objects as a means of sculptural expression.
Art History^Printmaking Printmaking Development of technical and expressive skills through selected problems in one or more of the print processes.
Art History^Intermediate Printmaking:  Intaglio/Relief Intermediate Printmaking:  Intaglio/Relief Instruction and practice in the fundamentals of intaglio and relief printmaking processes in their relation to the fine arts.
Art History^Intermediate Printmaking:  Lithography/Serigraphy Intermediate Printmaking:  Lithography/Serigraphy Instruction and practice in the fundamentals of the lithographic and serigraphic processes and their relationship to the meaning of the print.
Art History^New Media Printmaking New Media Printmaking A studio course concentrating on the integration of new media and traditional printmaking processes.
Art History^Intermediate Painting Intermediate Painting A variable offering in painting; course conditions defined on a rotating basis according to needs of individuals and groups.
Art History^Themes and Issues I Themes and Issues I An advanced studio course that emphasizes individual approach to theme oriented problem solving through traditional and non-traditional multi-media explorations.
Art History^Themes and Issues II Themes and Issues II An advanced studio course that emphasizes individual approach to theme oriented problem solving through traditional and non-traditional multi-media explorations.
Art History^Intermediate Throwing Intermediate Throwing Intermediate ceramics course with focus on using wheel and throwing skills leading to personal expression in form, glazing, and firing.
Art History^Intermediate Handbuilding Intermediate Handbuilding An intermediate ceramics course with a focus on handbuilding techniques, leading to personal expression in forming, glazing, and firing.
Art History^Introduction to Photochemical Photography Introduction to Photochemical Photography Introduction to the fundamentals of black and white photochemical photography.
Art History^Digital Hand Digital Hand An introduction to digital fabrication techniques and an exploration of their impact on the technical and conceptual process of sculpture.
Art History^Found and Fabricated Found and Fabricated Expand your toolbox of sculptural skills by learning a variety of cold-joining techniques and other methods appropriate for working with found objects.
Art History^Foreign Study--Art Foreign Study--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Art History^Portfolio Design and Professional Practices Portfolio Design and Professional Practices This course emphasizes the development of presentation skills for digital artists in audience/client interactions.
Art History^Museum Studies Museum Studies An introduction to the professional activities that occur in art museums.
Art History^Seminar in Contemporary Art Seminar in Contemporary Art Trends in contemporary art investigated within the framework of studio visitations, museum tours, and through other related avenues of encounter.
Art History^Performance Art Performance Art The development, production, and presentation of performance art works, and the study of performance art theory and history.
Art History^Integrating Media: Convergence in Practice Integrating Media: Convergence in Practice A studio course concentrating on the integration of new media technologies in contemporary art practice.
Art History^Advanced Web and Net Art: Multimedia Publishing Advanced Web and Net Art: Multimedia Publishing A studio course concentrating on multimedia online "net art" practice and Web publishing.
Art History^Metal Art/Technology III Metal Art/Technology III Advanced exploration of current and emerging metal art technologies and proces ses as medium for conceptual, aesthetic, and functional artworks.
Art History^Advanced New Media: Capstone Advanced New Media: Capstone A new media and digital arts capstone course concentrating on the integration of art and technology in advanced thesis projects.
Art History^Drawing Drawing Drawing for advanced students, with total emphasis on sustained individual approaches.
Art History^Advanced Figure Drawing Advanced Figure Drawing Concentrated work in recording and understanding the human figure.
Art History^Advanced Sculpture Advanced Sculpture Advanced work in sculpture, with an emphasis on individual development.
Art History^Installation Art Installation Art Study and production of original visual statements through installation work as an art form.
Art History^Advanced Printmaking Advanced Printmaking Individual projects in one or more of the printmaking processes. Emphasis is on developing a portfolio of prints.
Art History^Artists Books Artists Books Study and production of original visual statements through the book as an art form.
Art History^Photo Based Printmaking Photo Based Printmaking Study and production of original visual statements through photographic based printmaking as an art form.
Art History^Advanced Painting Advanced Painting Development of the artist through a series of commitments; each semester serves as a contractual agreement along professional lines.
Art History^Advanced Painting Critique Advanced Painting Critique The painter in relation to his peers and his profession.
Art History^Individual Approaches I Individual Approaches I An advance studio where students are expected to explore personal themes and individual concepts in their art work.
Art History^Individual Approaches II Individual Approaches II An advance studio/lecture addressing the preparation for potential employment and/or entrance into graduate studies.
Art History^The Intermediate Digital Medium The Intermediate Digital Medium An advanced studio course using the computer as an artistic media.
Art History^Methods and Materials II Methods and Materials II A studio course that focuses on specific media or techniques reflecting varied faculty expertise.
Art History^Contemporary Women Artists Contemporary Women Artists An interdisciplinary course that investigates women artists who were integral to the production of contemporary art primarily in the Americas, Europe, and Asia.
Art History^History and Theory of Digital Art History and Theory of Digital Art History and theories of contemporary digital art emphasizing humanistic approaches to technology.
Art History^Advanced Ceramic Arts Advanced Ceramic Arts Individual exploration of ceramic materials and construction leading to graduate study or career development as a professional potter.
Art History^View Camera Photography View Camera Photography Experience with diverse camera formats and applications; particular emphasis on view camera.
Art History^Research Projects Courses Research Projects Courses Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Art History^Ceramic Surface Decoration Ceramic Surface Decoration The history of decoration and ornamentation will be learned and explored as ceramic ornamentation using clay techniques.
Art History^Multiples Multiples The concept of Multiples is explored via the processes of model making, mold making, slip casting and press molding.
Art History^Compositing in 3D Compositing in 3D This course covers intermediate to advanced 3D compositing techniques like colore correction, render pass and post effects for 3D video.
Art History^Ceramic Surface Decoration Ceramic Surface Decoration The history of decoration and ornamentation will be learned and explore as ceramic ornamentation using clay techniques.
Art History^Found & Fabricated Found & Fabricated Expand your toolbox of sculptural skills by learning advanced cold-joining techniques and other methods appropriate for working with found objects.
Art History^Pulp Fictions Pulp Fictions Repurpose, transform and innovate at an ambitious scale with materials drawn from the University's recycling program. Everyday detritus serves as a springboard for the creation of objects, installations, experiences and awareness.
Art History^D.I.Y. Digital Fabrication D.I.Y. Digital Fabrication Participants in this course will work collaborativley to build and utilize robust digital fabrication tools from open source hardware plans. Laser cutting and 3D printing will be explored in depth.
Art History^Flexible Molds: Parting Seams and Sculptural Concepts Flexible Molds: Parting Seams and Sculptural Concepts Multiple part, flexible mold and mother mold design skills are emphasized in this hands-on course. Experimental in concept relevant casting applications is encouraged.
Art History^Re-Thinking Materials Re-Thinking Materials This course will explore materials painting from cave to today, using techniques such as casein, silver point, egg tempera, encaustic, pigment, animal glues and illuminated manuscripts.
Art History^Constructing the Graphic Novel: Theory and Practice Constructing the Graphic Novel: Theory and Practice Exploring the grahic novel. The concept of story, sequential art and the graphic image will culminate in authorship of a graphic novel.
Art History^Mobile & Touch Screen Devices Mobile & Touch Screen Devices Through lectures and hands on projects, students learn to develop, using the latest technologies, expressive applications targeting mobile and touch screen devices.
Computer Science^Computer Fundamentals and Applications Computer Fundamentals and Applications Introduction to computer fundamentals and applications to data processing environments.
Computer Science^Introduction to C++ Programming Introduction to C++ Programming Properties of algorithms, languages, and notations for describing algorithms, applications of a procedure-oriented language to problem solving. A student may receive credit for only one of the following courses: CMPSC 101, 200, 201, 202, 121.
Computer Science^Introduction to Visual Programming Introduction to Visual Programming Problem solving for non-majors; high-level language programming; controlstructures, functions, parameters, recursion, arrays, records/ structures; verification; debugging; documentation.
Computer Science^Introduction to Data Processing with COBOL Introduction to Data Processing with COBOL Study of the COBOL programming language and its applications in industry.
Computer Science^Logic for Computer Science Logic for Computer Science An introduction to logic and its application to problem solving and computer science.
Computer Science^Introduction to Programming Techniques Introduction to Programming Techniques Design and implementation of algorithms. Structured programming. Problem solving techniques. Introduction to a high-level language, including arrays, procedures, and recursion.
Computer Science^Intermediate Programming Intermediate Programming Object-oriented programming, recursion, fundamental data structures , the basics of algorithmic analysis, and an introduction to the principles of language translation.
Computer Science^Intermediate Programming Intermediate Programming Object-oriented programming, recursion, fundamental data structures , the basics of algorithmic analysis, and an introduction to the principles of language translation.
Computer Science^Programming for Engineers with MATLAB Programming for Engineers with MATLAB Development and implementation of algorithms in a procedure-oriented language, with emphasis on numerical methods for engineering problems. A student may receive credit for only one of the following courses: CMPSC 101, 102, 200, 201, or 202.
Computer Science^Programming for Engineers with C++ Programming for Engineers with C++ Development and implementation of algorithms in a procedure-oriented language, with emphasis on numerical methods for engineering problems. A student may receive credit for only one of the following courses: CMPSC 101, 102, 200, 201, or 202.
Computer Science^Programming for Engineers with FORTRAN Programming for Engineers with FORTRAN Development and implementation of algorithms in a procedure-oriented language, with emphasis on numerical methods for engineering problems. A student may receive credit for only one of the following courses: CMPSC 101, 102, 200, 201, or 202.
Computer Science^Introduction to Spreadsheets and Databases Introduction to Spreadsheets and Databases Design, use, and programming of spreadsheets and data bases with applications from a range of disciplines.
Computer Science^Technical Game Development Technical Game Development Introduction to the tools and techniques required to implement games in a virtual environment.
Computer Science^Object Oriented Programming with Web-Based Applications Object Oriented Programming with Web-Based Applications This course will continue with object-oriented programming and will introduce graphics, virtual machines, programming language concepts and web-based programming using Java.
Computer Science^2D Game Programming 2D Game Programming Introduction to programming 2D Games with HTML5 and JavaScript.
Computer Science^ASP.NET MVC and ADO.NET ASP.NET MVC and ADO.NET Gain a comprehensive introduction to building state-of-the-art Web applications using the Microsoft.NET  development platform, with an emphasis on server-side technologies. This course also provides students with the knowledge and skills using ADO.NET to access and modify data stored in relational database systems and to access data in non-relational sources. This course provides an extensive, hands-on look at this technology.
Computer Science^Intermediate Visual Programming Intermediate Visual Programming OO programming, visual programming, classes, objects, ADTs, inheritance, recursion, regular expressions, user-defined controls, documentation, testing, verification, productivity tools.
Computer Science^Introduction to Systems Programming Introduction to Systems Programming Unix system programming in C; organization of programs and data; program analysis and support tools; software standards; common system functions.
Computer Science^Computer Organization and Architecture Computer Organization and Architecture Data representation, digital logic, instruction set/control logic, machine/ assembly languages, advanced architectures, memory hierarchy, I/O devices, overall system design.
Computer Science^Assembly Language Programming Assembly Language Programming Program design, addressing modes, subroutines, parameter passing, stacks, bit manipulation, text processing, DOS functions, macros, I/O, high level language interfaces.
Computer Science^Fundamentals of Communication Networks Fundamentals of Communication Networks Introduction to the composition of communciation networks, including trans- mission mediums and protocols, transfer methods, topologies and software, and communications hardware.
Computer Science^Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science Discrete mathematics and foundations for modern computer science. Topics include sets, relations, logic, algorithms, graphs, finite state machines and regular expressions.
Computer Science^STATEWARE Project STATEWARE Project Working in a simulated commercial environment, students will develop non- trival software in service of research efforts at Penn State. Students will learn proper software engineering techniques and obtain practice in designing, developing and deploying a medium-scale software system.
Computer Science^UNIX and C UNIX and C UNIX OS including file system, utilities, and shell scripting; C programming, including I/O, pointers, arrays, dynamic memory, macros, and libraries.
Computer Science^Data Structures Lab Data Structures Lab Programming with common data structures; recursion; stacks, queues, dictionaries, priority queues; string searching and manipulation; sorting; trees; combinatorics.
Computer Science^Algorithms Lab Algorithms Lab Programming with common algorithm design techniques; divide and conquer, greedy method, dynamic programming, and tree and graphy traversals.
Computer Science^Net-centric Computing Net-centric Computing This course introduces JavaScript and AJAX for creating Rich Internet Applications, and XML for client-server communication and Web Services.
Computer Science^Object-oriented Design Object-oriented Design Object-oriented analysis and design; design patterns such as creational, structural, and behavioral patterns; UML; and unified process.
Computer Science^Database Design Database Design Relational database model, query languages, integrity, reliability, normal forms for design.
Computer Science^Database Management Systems Database Management Systems Topics include: conceptual data modeling, relational data model, relational query languages, schema normalization, database/Internet applications, and database system issues.
Computer Science^Communications and Networking Communications and Networking Data transmission, basic signaling, data encoding, error control, communication protocols, security, network topologies, routing, switching, internetworking, emerging high speed networks.
Computer Science^Computer Network Architecture and Programming Computer Network Architecture and Programming Network architectures, communication protocols, internetworking, network security, client-server computing, web application development, programming with APIs.
Computer Science^Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence Problem solving, search techniques including local search and genetic algorithms, knowledge representation, planning, learning, and neural networks.
Computer Science^Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence Introduction to the theory, research paradigms, implementation techniques, and philosophies of artificial intelligence.
Computer Science^Introduction to Computer and Network Security Introduction to Computer and Network Security Introduction to theory and practice of computer security with an emphasis on Internet and operating system applications.
Computer Science^Secure Programming Secure Programming Secure software design principles/practice, common threats, applied cryptography, trust management, input validation, OS-/programming language- specific issues, software validation.
Computer Science^Machine Learning and Algorithmic AI Machine Learning and Algorithmic AI Evaluation and use of machine learning models; algorithmic elements of artificial intelligence.
Computer Science^Concurrent Scientific Programming Concurrent Scientific Programming Problems of synchronization, concurrent execution, and their solution techniques. Design and implementation of concurrent software in a distributed system.
Computer Science^Numerical Computations Numerical Computations Algorithms for interpolation, approximation, integration, nonlinear equations, linear systems, fast FOURIER transform, and differential equations emphasizing computational properties and implementation. Students may take only one course for credit from CSE/MATH 451 and CSE/MATH 455.
Computer Science^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis Algorithm efficiency and accuracy, function interpolation and polynomial approximation, numerical differentiation and integration, initial-value problems, and approximation of eigenvalues.
Computer Science^Introduction to Numerical Analysis I Introduction to Numerical Analysis I Floating point computation, numerical rootfinding, interpolation, numerical quadrature, direct methods for linear systems. Students may take only one course for credit from CMPSC  451 and CMPSC  455.
Computer Science^Introduction to Numerical Analysis II Introduction to Numerical Analysis II Polynomials and piecewise polynomial approximation; matrix least square problems; numerical solution of eigenvalue problems; numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations.
Computer Science^Computer Graphics Algorithms Computer Graphics Algorithms Graphics systems/hardware, color models, transformations, projections, clipping, hidden line/surface removal, aliasing, parametric curves/surfaces, 3D modeling animation.
Computer Science^Fundamentals of Computer Graphics Fundamentals of Computer Graphics Fundamentals of computer graphics: input/output devices, transformation, projection, clipping, hidden line/surface elimination.
Computer Science^Scientific Visualization Scientific Visualization Visualization techniques for data analysis and presentation. Applying visualization and perceptual theory. Using extending platform independent visualization software.
Computer Science^Principles of Programming Languages Principles of Programming Languages Design and implementation of high level programming languages and survey of language paradigms including imperative, functional, and object-oriented programming.
Computer Science^Programming Language Concepts Programming Language Concepts Fundamental concepts of programming language design, specifications, and implementation; programming language paradigms and features; program verification.
Computer Science^Data Structures Data Structures In-depth theoretical study of data structures such as balanced trees, hash tables, priority queues, B-trees, binomial heaps, and Fibonacci heaps.
Computer Science^Design and Analysis of Algorithms Design and Analysis of Algorithms Recurrences, algorithms design techniques, searching, sorting, selection, graph algorithms, NP-completeness, approximation algorithms, local optimization algorithms.
Computer Science^Introduction to the Theory of Computation Introduction to the Theory of Computation Computability/Complexity: finite automata, regular &amp; context-free languages, Turing machines, Church-Turing Thesis, undecidability, reducibility, completeness, time/space complexity, P versus NP.
Computer Science^Data Structures and Algorithms Data Structures and Algorithms Fundamental concepts of computer science: data structures, analysis of algorithms, recursion, trees, sets, graphs, sorting.
Computer Science^Factorization and Primality Testing Factorization and Primality Testing Prime sieves, factoring, computer numeration systems, congruences, multiplicative functions, primitive roots, cryptography, quadratic residues. Students who have passed MATH 465 may not schedule this course.
Computer Science^Formal Languages with Applications Formal Languages with Applications Regular, context free, recursive, and recursively enumerable languages; associated machine models; applications.
Computer Science^Compiler Construction Compiler Construction Compiler design and implementation; scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, optimization , code generation, garbage collection, and error detection.
Computer Science^Introduction to Compiler Construction Introduction to Compiler Construction Design and implementation of compilers; lexical analysis, parsing, semantic actions, optimization, and code generation.
Computer Science^Operating System Concepts Operating System Concepts Theoretical and practical issues of operating systems design and implementation, process management, concurrent programming, memory management, scheduling, I/O, and security.
Computer Science^Operating Systems Design & Construction Operating Systems Design & Construction Design and implementation of computer operating systems; management of various system resources: processes, memory, processors, files, input/output devices.
Computer Science^Operating System & Systems Programming Operating System & Systems Programming Operating Systems overview and principles; processes and signals; concurrency and synchronization; memory and file management; client-server computing; scripts; systems-programming.
Computer Science^Applications Programming Applications Programming Development of software for devices including smart phones, tablets, handheld units, and other general purpose computing platforms.
Computer Science^Software Design Methods Software Design Methods Applications of scientific knowledge and methods in the design and construction of computer software using engineering concepts.
Computer Science^Computer Science Senior Project I Computer Science Senior Project I Computer science capstone project with documentation emphasis.
Computer Science^Computer Science Senior Project II Computer Science Senior Project II Computer science capstone project with documentation emphasis.
Computer Science^Software Engineering and Design Software Engineering and Design Software development process, life cycle; requirements analysis, specification, design, prototyping, testing, project management, and documentation.
Computer Science^Computer Science Project Computer Science Project Project design and implementation with an emphasis on team work, documentation, and the employment and integration of computer science concepts.
Computer Science^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Supervised Honors thesis research in computer science and engineering.
Computer Science^Contest Programming Contest Programming Programming Contest Questions; Common Data Structures; Strings; Combinatorics; Number Theory; Backtracking; Graph Traversal; Graph Algorithms; Dynamic Programming.
Computer Science^Game Developers Conference Trip Game Developers Conference Trip Travel for game student to game development conference for professional development and networking.
Computer Science^Introduction to Bioinformatics Introduction to Bioinformatics Introduction to the biological problems and computational solutions that motivate current applications in computational biology. Topics will be organized around three main themes: 1) Genomes, including assembly and annotation of genomic sequences; 2) Evolution, including sequence comparison, reconstruction of evolutionary relationships, and detection of disease associated traits; and 3) Function, including analysis of functional genomics experiments and characterization of regulatory relationships between genes.
Education^First-Year Seminar in Education First-Year Seminar in Education Learning about a scholarly community through the development of knowledge and skills needed for successful participation in higher education.
Education^Educational Systems in Mexico Educational Systems in Mexico Examine the various levels of education and options within the country and explore the national requirement for competency in English in public schools.
Education^Basic Preparation for Teaching Basic Preparation for Teaching Philosophical, psychological issues in education; instructional objectives, lesson planning; evaluation, grading procedures; assessment, instruction of individual children. Field experience.
Education^Inclusive Practices in General Education Classrooms Inclusive Practices in General Education Classrooms This course is designed to examine the procedures, characteristics and strategies for working with special learners in the elementary school.
Education^Classroom Organization and Management Classroom Organization and Management Organization, integration of the elementary school day; classroom management, control techniques; audio-visual techniques.
Education^Creative Arts Creative Arts Experiences in self-expression through a variety of visual and performing arts. Techniques for guiding school children in artistic expression.
Education^Field Observation Field Observation Observation techniques; classroom observation and participation.
Education^Learning Theory and Instructional Procedures Learning Theory and Instructional Procedures Theories of learning in relation to instructional practices. Analysis of motivation, transfer of learning, and retention. Field practicum.
Education^Social and Cultural Factors in Education Social and Cultural Factors in Education Critical examination of how different experiences linked to race, ethnicity, religion, gender, and sexual orientation influence education.
Education^Methods in Teaching Beginning Readers Methods in Teaching Beginning Readers Concepts, methods, and materials for developing beginning reading abilities, with emphasis on personalized instruction through diagnostic teaching.
Education^Methods in Teaching Intermediate and Advanced Readers Methods in Teaching Intermediate and Advanced Readers Concepts, methods, and materials for personalizing reading instruction with emphasis on extending personal and functional reading abilities beyond beginning reading.
Education^Adolescent Literature and Developmental Reading Adolescent Literature and Developmental Reading Adolescent literature materials, reading principles, and practices suitable for an English class.
Education^Teaching Language Arts Teaching Language Arts Teaching the writing process, including speaking and listening skills in relation to oral and written composition.
Education^Teaching Elementary Social Studies Teaching Elementary Social Studies The theory and practice of elementary social studies instruction.
Education^Teaching Music in the Elementary School Teaching Music in the Elementary School Music methods course for elementary education majors; students will learn elements of music, and instructional techniques.
Education^Professional Development in Teaching Professional Development in Teaching This course addresses practical issues central to the profession of teaching and, in some cases, specific to Pennsylvania.
Education^Urban Teaching Collaborative Afterschool Online Tutoring Urban Teaching Collaborative Afterschool Online Tutoring Future educators provide academic support and mentorship to elementary school students from Isaac Sheppard Elementary Schools in Philadelphia.
Education^Undergraduate Teaching Assistant-Urban Collaborative Tech Support Undergraduate Teaching Assistant-Urban Collaborative Tech Support Opportunity to broaden undergraduate educational experience and development of professional competencies. TA assist instructors by providing technical and academic support to peer-tutors, engage in leading class discussions, assist instructors with course related errands and coordination of logistics for on-line tutoring programs campus visits.
Education^Diversity and Cultural Awareness Practices in the K-12 Classroom Diversity and Cultural Awareness Practices in the K-12 Classroom This course addresses diversity, cultural awareness and sensitivity about cultures, concepts and methods in society, communities and educational settings.
Education^Early Childhood Education Early Childhood Education Organization, methodology, and materials for nursery school and kindergarten programs.
Education^Early Learning: Language and Concept Development Early Learning: Language and Concept Development Examining the development of language and self-expression in young children, and the role of children's literature in facilitating development.
Education^Curriculum for Early Childhood Curriculum for Early Childhood Examining early childhood programs and methodology, focusing on areas of social studies, mathematics, and science.
Education^Young Children's Behavior: Observation and Evaluation Young Children's Behavior: Observation and Evaluation Observation, recording and evaluation of student behaviors, and the use of prescription techniques for early childhood students with special needs.
Education^Administration of Early Childhood Education Programs Administration of Early Childhood Education Programs The role of the early childhood administrator as it relates to regulations, staffing, management, funding and curriculum.
Education^The Child and Social Institutions The Child and Social Institutions The effects of the family on a child's development, especially in the infancy and preschool years.
Education^Teaching Secondary Social Studies Teaching Secondary Social Studies Study of the objectives, content, methods, and evaluation of procedures of social studies. Students design units and lesson plans.
Education^Teaching Secondary English and the Humanities Teaching Secondary English and the Humanities Study of the objectives, content, and methods of English and humanities courses.
Education^Teaching Secondary Mathematics Teaching Secondary Mathematics Study of the objectives, content, methods, and evaluation procedures of mathematics.
Education^Positive Classroom Climate for Positive Attitudes About Learning Positive Classroom Climate for Positive Attitudes About Learning Participants will learn strategies for creating classroom climates which encourage positive attitudes toward learning while preventing and correcting student misbehavior.
Education^Children's Literature Children's Literature Knowledge of literature appropriate for elementary school children and utilization of literature-related activities in teaching reading.
Education^Literature for Children and Adolescents Literature for Children and Adolescents Literature for children and adolescents, approaches for using such literature in the school curriculum.
Education^Literacy Assessment Literacy Assessment This course emphasizes alternative literacy measures focusing on portfolio assessment and performance assessments.
Education^Children's Literature in Teaching Writing Children's Literature in Teaching Writing Introduction to introduces methods for transferring writing skills and literary devices from literature to student writing in all subject areas.
Education^Addressing the Needs of Special Learners Addressing the Needs of Special Learners An examination of attitudes toward, barriers experienced by, and special needs of special learners in the schools.
Education^Inclusion Practices in Education Inclusion Practices in Education The educational, social, and political foundations for inclusion practices in public education.
Education^Educational Statistics and Measurements Educational Statistics and Measurements Descriptive statistics, correlation, reliability, validity, scaling techniques, and introduction to item analysis.
Education^Teaching Writing Teaching Writing Techniques for teaching the writing process, kindergarten through grade 12, including writing in content areas; workshop format.
Education^Behavior Management Strategies for Inclusive Classrooms Behavior Management Strategies for Inclusive Classrooms Provides knowledge and skills essential for designing positive learning environments in secondary classrooms with the inclusion of exceptional learners.
Education^Strategies for Effective Teaching in Inclusive Classrooms Strategies for Effective Teaching in Inclusive Classrooms Course examines effective strategies for accommodating and adapting instruction for exceptional learners in secondary classrooms.
Education^Field Study in Ecology Field Study in Ecology Study and analysis of the ecology of various regions of the world. May be repeated for credit.
Education^Computers for Classroom Teachers Computers for Classroom Teachers An introduction: microcomputers and their educational applications.
Education^Teaching With Modern Web Technologies Teaching With Modern Web Technologies Relates educational theory and practice to applications of the modern Web, applying content from educational foundations, curriculum, and research.
Education^Technology and the Learning Process Technology and the Learning Process Evaluates the relationship between technology-based resources and learning theories through design, implementation, and evaluation of online instructional modules.
Education^Serving Culturally and Linguistically Diverse (CLD) Learners Serving Culturally and Linguistically Diverse (CLD) Learners The course provides teachers with knowledge, understandings, and skills to engage culturally and linguistically diverse  students in mainstream classrooms.
Education^Foundations of Teaching English as a Second Language Foundations of Teaching English as a Second Language Overview of various legal, historical, and socio-cultural implications of teaching and learning English as a Second Language.
Education^English Language Structure for English as a Second Language Teachers English Language Structure for English as a Second Language Teachers An in-depth study and review of general linguistic concepts and their application to ESL pedagogy.
Education^Language Acquisition for English as a Second Language Teachers Language Acquisition for English as a Second Language Teachers Study of the theory, research, and processes involved in first and second language development, acquisition, and assessment.
Education^Teaching Methods and Assessment of English as a Second Language Teaching Methods and Assessment of English as a Second Language Integration of theory, research, and practice about ESL curriculum, instructional methods, assessment, and literacy development.
Education^Higher-Order Thinking for Educators Higher-Order Thinking for Educators Presentation of strategies, techniques, and principles of higher-order thinking which are grounded in relevant research and practice will be presented.
Education^Best Practices in Literacy Best Practices in Literacy An application of best literacy practices to classroom instruction and assessment of reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
Education^Teaching Reading Through the Content Areas Teaching Reading Through the Content Areas Designed to enable teachers of content areas to improve the reading/study skills needed by their students.
Education^ESL Leadership, Research and Advocacy ESL Leadership, Research and Advocacy Teachers will develop their skills as instructional leaders and researchers by conducting school-based action research projects.
Education^Teaching Struggling Readers and Writers Teaching Struggling Readers and Writers A comprehensive overview of learning problems and effective strategies for teaching K-12 students who have difficulties reading and writing.
Education^Secondary Transition for Students with Disabilities Secondary Transition for Students with Disabilities Process and procedures for successful transition of secondary students with disabilities.
Education^School Law for Teachers School Law for Teachers This course will focus on increasing teacher awareness of law and how it impacts on daily performance and job security.
Education^Student Teaching Student Teaching Observation and teaching in selected elementary or secondary schools under direction of cooperating classroom teachers and University supervisors. Regular seminars. GPA 3.0 or higher. Passing scores on required Praxis I tests.
Education^Junior Field Experience Junior Field Experience Second semester juniors assigned to a suburban elementary school for the purpose of actively participating in classroom activities.
Education^Senior Field Experience Senior Field Experience First semester seniors assigned to an urban elementary school for the purpose of actively participating in classroom activities.
Education^Early Childhood Field Experience Early Childhood Field Experience First semester seniors assigned to an urban elementary school for the purpose of actively participating in an early childhood classroom.
Education^Informational Children's Literature - Grades P-12 Informational Children's Literature - Grades P-12 This course focuses on the ways in which informational literature can be selected and integrated into langauge arts and content area curricula appropriate for preK-12 classrooms. Today's reader needs to be able to read and interpret. The challenge remains for educators to show how informational literture fits within school programs and how it should be read, interpreted, and utilized to meet the growning need for literature citizens. In this course, participants will read a plethora of informational/ nonfiction children's/adolescent literature as well as scholarly writing focused on informational/nonfiction texts within educational settings.
Education^Special Topics: Examining School Vulnerability Special Topics: Examining School Vulnerability This course considers American schools as students develop a plan to address school vulnerability, student safety, and community response using the research literature as a foundation.
Education^Catalyst IV STEM Catalyst IV STEM This one-week course is part of a STEM Institute for middle grades mathematics teachers to develop their mathematical literacy and knowledge of STEM connections in their curricula.
Education^Closing in on Close Reading Closing in on Close Reading Explore methods to improve and modify strategies to promote engagement and increase effective teaching of close reading strategies.
Education^Crucial Role of Technology Within the Framework of Teaching Crucial Role of Technology Within the Framework of Teaching Designed to guide educators in the purposeful planning for integration of technology into their teaching practices.
Education^Using a Writer's Notebook to Empower Writers Using a Writer's Notebook to Empower Writers This course will explore the endless possibilities of using a writer's notebook to strengthen and broaden both student writing and classroom instruction.
Religion^RL RL No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Enviromental Science^Case Studies in Environmental Analysis and Problem-Solving Case Studies in Environmental Analysis and Problem-Solving A writing-intensive environmental science course comprising review and analysis of field, lab, policy, and management aspects; investigative methods; and projects.
Enviromental Science^Research in Environmental Science Research in Environmental Science ENVSC 494 is an experiential course that allows undergraduates to design, complete and present a research project in environmental science.
Enviromental Science^Internship in Environmental Science Internship in Environmental Science ENVSC 495 is an off-campus internship experience with a local, regional, or national environmental organization, government agency, or private-sector business.
Enviromental Science^Independent Studies in Environmental Science Independent Studies in Environmental Science Creative projects or specialized coursework, supervised on an individual basis, that falls outside the scope of formal ENVSC coursework.
Electrical Engineering^E E No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Architecture^Foreign Studies--Architecture Foreign Studies--Architecture Individual or group instruction conducted in a foreign country.
Architecture^Architecture and Ideas Architecture and Ideas General introduction to world architecture, emphasizing the relationship between concepts, philosophies, values and ideologies in shaping the built environment.
Architecture^Visual Communications I Visual Communications I Development of two and three-dimensional graphic communications skills and techniques required for the practice of architecture.
Architecture^Visual Communications II Visual Communications II Development of two-dimensional digital graphic communications skills and techniques required for the practice of architecture.
Architecture^Basic Design and Research I Basic Design and Research I Multidimensional design and perceptual development. Formulation of abstracted concepts and logical visual models.
Architecture^Basic Design Studio I Basic Design Studio I An introduction to the basic concepts, methods, and skills of architectural design in a project-based, active learning, studio environment.
Architecture^Basic Design Studio II Basic Design Studio II Continuation of ARCH 131S which further explores basic concepts, methods, and skills of architectural design with an emphasis on craftsmanship.
Architecture^Foreign Studies--Architecture Foreign Studies--Architecture Individual or group instruction conducted in a foreign country.
Architecture^Materials and Building Construction I Materials and Building Construction I Instruction in the design and construction of buildings utilizing wood and steel.
Architecture^Materials and Building Construction II Materials and Building Construction II This course will continue the presentations of ARCH 203, with a focus on concrete and masonry materials.
Architecture^Introduction to Architecture and Planning Theories Introduction to Architecture and Planning Theories The course introduces architectural and urban theory by presenting and exploring key concepts through major texts from the Western tradition.
Architecture^Contemporary Design and Planning Theories II Contemporary Design and Planning Theories II Continuation of ARCH 210, with an in-depth analysis and study of significant and current environmental constructs and issues.
Architecture^Architectural Design I Architectural Design I Design of limited environments within defined constraints.
Architecture^Architectural Design II Architectural Design II Design of limited environments within defined constraints.
Architecture^Advanced Architectural and Related Design/Construction Work Experience I Advanced Architectural and Related Design/Construction Work Experience I Supervised off-campus, nongroup instruction including field experiences, practica, or architectural and related design/construction work experience.
Architecture^Introductory Seminar in Historic Architecture II Introductory Seminar in Historic Architecture II Examination of the origins, dissemination, transformations and legacy of modern architecture since 1900 through analysis of the key works, architects, and ideas of a specific period, movement, and/or region.
Architecture^Foreign Studies--Architecture Foreign Studies--Architecture Individual or group instruction conducted in a foreign country.
Architecture^Architectural and Planning Theories Architectural and Planning Theories Architectural theory course with a strong focus on the reading and writing of essays about architecture and related fields.
Architecture^Critical Postcolonial and Contemporary Perspectives in South Asian         Architecture Critical Postcolonial and Contemporary Perspectives in South Asian         Architecture This course will examine critical postcolonial and contemporary architectural issues in South Asia in the context of cultural globalization today.
Architecture^Analysis of Human Settlements: Cities Analysis of Human Settlements: Cities Analysis of the interrelated factors which determined and shaped the various types of early cities through the nineteenth century.
Architecture^Theory of Modern Japanese Architecture Theory of Modern Japanese Architecture Introduction to the development of modern Japanese architecture from the Meiji Restoration of 1868 to the present day.
Architecture^Architectural Design III Architectural Design III Development of the design process through organizational methodologies, based on physical, functional, and social-behavioral determinants.
Architecture^Architectural Design IV Architectural Design IV Development of the design process through organizational methodologies, based on physical, functional, and social-behavioral determinants.
Architecture^Integrative Energy and Environmental Design Integrative Energy and Environmental Design Concepts and strategies for the environmentally conscious design of the built environment.
Architecture^The Language of Boundaries in Architecture and the Landscape The Language of Boundaries in Architecture and the Landscape This course examines the development and significance of boundaries in the construction of human space and time. Students who have taken other courses from Architecture Visual Arts, Geography, or Philosophy that treat some aspect of spatial perception, conception, construction, or visualiation, or who have completed equivalent study independently, may enroll with the permission of the program.
Architecture^Architectural Design V Architectural Design V Continuation of ARCH 331 and 332, with design and research in program option areas.
Architecture^Architectural Design VI Architectural Design VI A continuation of ARCH 431, this course explores in greater depth urban planning and archiectural design in an urban context.
Architecture^Architectural Design Analysis Architectural Design Analysis Studies in principles and elements of design; planning for human use; the relationship of space to physical and social environment. Architectural Engineering majors only.
Architecture^Architectural Design Analysis Architectural Design Analysis Continuation of ARCH 441, with emphasis on functional relationship of space, form, structure, and building groups. Architectural Engineering majors only.
Architecture^Architectural Design Analysis Inspection Trip Architectural Design Analysis Inspection Trip Faculty guided trip to metropolitan areas to investigate noteworthy architecture and building construction and to visit professional offices.
Architecture^Architectural Professional Practice Architectural Professional Practice A study of architectural practice in today's society: education, registration, office practice, codes, standards, construction industry, contracts, and legal documents.
Architecture^Technical Systems Integration Technical Systems Integration Presentations of buildings' analyses from a multiplicity of viewpoints: architectural, spacial, environmental, mechanical, construction assembly.
Architecture^Digital Design Media Digital Design Media Advanced course in digital modeling, rendering, animation and non-linear video for architectural investigations.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio Architectural Design Studio Problems in architectural planning and design; and/or programming, implementation methodologies and applications for various environmental design scales.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio Architectural Design Studio Continuation of select ARCH 491 sections with concentration and specialization options.
Architecture^Advanced Architectural and Related Design/Construction Work Experience II Advanced Architectural and Related Design/Construction Work Experience II Supervised off-campus, nongroup instruction including field experiences, practica, or architectural and related design/construction work experience.
Architecture^Independent Study - Honors Independent Study - Honors Creative projects, including research and design, which are supervised on an individual basis and which fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Architecture^Introductory Seminar in Historic Architecture II Introductory Seminar in Historic Architecture II Examination of the origins, dissemination, transformations and legacy of modern architecture since 1900 through analysis of the key works, architects, and ideas of a specific period, movement and/or region.
Architecture^Models for Professional Practice Models for Professional Practice This seminar will explore dominant and alternative modes of professional practice. We will begin by introducing the typical scales and organizations of mainstream practices. We'll then focus on the range of alternative practices across the United States including those focused on public policy, sustainability, information and product design, real estate development, curation and research. Class sessions will include case studies discussions, speakers and student presentations. The objective of the course is to broaden the understanding of modes of architectural practice, consider architectur's relationship to related disciplines, explore the role of entrepreneurship and service within practice, better define the unique skills and services that differentiate architect, and most significantly explore career paths that may be the best fit for your own skills and interest.
Architecture^Reading Seminar on Modern Architecture Reading Seminar on Modern Architecture In this reading seminar we'll explore significant text by modern architectural historians, theorists and practitioners at the advent of post-modernism from 1945-1975. We'll discuss how these approaches interested with contemporary architectural production. Different types of media  will also be studied within different institutional structures  to better understand the promotion, alternative meanings and reception of architecture in this period.
Architecture^Improvisation Improvisation Vertical laboratory that addresses the performative stages of design through the practice of impromptu presentations, interactive display and communication as techniques for instantaneous decision-making.
Architecture^Net-Zero Ready Housing Net-Zero Ready Housing This class will result in a design for a duplex house for the non-profit State College Community Land Trust to be located on University Drive in State College. Participants will work collaboratively with each other and with our sponsors to execute a realizable design intended for construction in the following year. The potential for an internship exists during the summer of 2015 to finalize the construction documents for bidding and building.
Architecture^Space and Culture Space and Culture "Space" is more than a single idea: the word encompasses Cartesian space, phenomenological space, dialogical space, cosmologies, projected space, space as "practice of place"...In weekly discussions with Peter Lynch Beijing/New York architect) and Madeleine Hatz , seminar participants will explore different ideas of space through text fragments, works of art and architecture, and drawing assignments.
Architecture^Technology and the Imagination of Design Technology and the Imagination of Design The subject of this seminar is the emergence of technology as a pivotal concept in contemporary design discourses. Through weekly reading, writing, and discussion, we will examine architectural responses - chiefly in technological discourses, design theories, and film - to the so-called computer revolution, cybernetics, information theory, and the linked transformations to the conceptions of nature, work, authorship, and the human. This course is recommended for research students preparing a thesis in Design Computing, or undergraduate students interested in developing a critical understanding of design technologies.
Architecture^Algorithmic Tectonics Algorithmic Tectonics This course is an introduction to computer programming as a vehicle for creative design. Students learn to write their own software for creating and manipulating geometry, images, behaviors, and physical objects, thus challenging the conventions of existing tools. By learning to create their own computational design tools, students re-frame software as a territory for speculative, critical and poetic thinking about design - rather than as an instrument of production. The course is designed for students without prior programming experience. By the end of the course, students are able to formulate the pursue computational approaches to design exploration, analysis, visualization and fabrication. Given that learning to program requires constant practice , the most important aspects of the course are showing up and the timely submission of the weekly assignments designed to reinforce the class's topics.
Architecture^A Line Around an Idea A Line Around an Idea A seminar focused on visual thinking.
Architecture^Monocoque Structures Fabrication Monocoque Structures Fabrication Lightweight architecture made of fiber composites where bearing is done through the surface of material itself can not only reduce the weight of buildings but also offers opportunities for formal innovation in architecture.
Architecture^Soft Built: Crafting Technology with Textiles Soft Built: Crafting Technology with Textiles "What opportunities are afforded by soft electronically active materials for architecture and our environment? How can we use soft electronically active materials to bring intelligence to, augement and expand the environments we design and inhabit? This course will be a project based course that will give students the opportunity to learn basic techniques for constructing computational textiles made with conductive threads, yarns, and fabrics. Computational textiles are textiles that can be programmed as sensors for light, temperature, humidity, expansion and many other types of data inputs."
Architecture^Building & Time: A Seminar on Architectural Experience Building & Time: A Seminar on Architectural Experience This course will be a traditional discussion-based seminar where faculty presentation of content will be balanced with students' participatory dialogue.
Architecture^Machine Sessions Machine Sessions Architects have always devised and built machines to realize their visions. This class will work to design and build Tectonic Machines for construction, deconstruction, and "in service to the miracle."
Architecture^Rome Study--Architectural Design Rome Study--Architectural Design Individual or group instruction conducted in Rome, Italy.
Architecture^Architectural Analysis Architectural Analysis Comparative study of architectural elements and building types through on-site drawing, recording, measurement, sketching and decomposition activity.
Architecture^Urban Studies Topics Urban Studies Topics A presentation of the history of Rome through the medium of its maps and walking tours of the city.
Architecture^Chinda Chinda Study Abroad China Program.
Architecture^Rome Rome This course offers a broad overview of architecture, urbanism, art, and culture of Italy. Our tours, site-visits and lectures will emphasize individual works of historic and contemporary architecture, the role of the individual building, urban components and spaces in the making of cities, the rural landscape, villas and gardens. These subjects will be understood within the larger sociocultural context of Italy and its varius regions. Rome will be the main laboratory of our study and common denominator in comparative analyses. Through the course of the semester, we will visit a variety of sites in many cities, including Pompeii, Florence, Verona, and Venice, as well as a variety of villas, gardens and other important sites in their environments.
Architecture^Architectural Design--Foreign Study Architectural Design--Foreign Study Group instruction conducted in a foreign country.
Training & Development^Foundations in Training and Development Foundations in Training and Development Roles in training and development, relationships between training and development and other organizational structures, and the principles of training design.
Management^Introduction to Statistics for Business Introduction to Statistics for Business Topics include descriptive statistics, probability distributions, statistical inference, regression and correlation, and forecasting.
Management^Honors Introduction to Statistics for Business Honors Introduction to Statistics for Business Topics include descriptive statistics, probability distributions, statistical inference, regression and correlation, and forecasting.
Management^Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Supply chain management concepts, principles, and methodologies.
Management^Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Supply chain management concepts, principles, and methodologies.
Management^Introduction to Operations Management Introduction to Operations Management An introduction to the strategic importance and the analytic tools of operations management. Not available to baccalaureate business students in Smeal.
Management^Transport Systems Transport Systems Strategic role of freight transportation systems and services in supply chain networks. Not available to baccalaureate business students in Smeal.
Management^Transport Planning Transport Planning Advanced study of transport systems in supply chain networks.
Management^Demand Fulfillment Demand Fulfillment Analysis of demand fulfillment and the role of distribution operations management in the supply chain.
Management^Manufacturing and Services Strategies Manufacturing and Services Strategies Investigates manufacturing and services strategies in supply chain networks.
Management^Strategic Procurement Strategic Procurement Analysis of strategic procurement in the supply chain.
Management^Warehousing and Terminal Management Warehousing and Terminal Management Administration of warehouse and terminal functions in logistics systems, with analysis of customer service, forecasting, inventory, investment, design, and operation. Not available to baccalaureate business students in Smeal.
Management^Supply Chain Analytics Supply Chain Analytics Models and Methodologies for supply chain analysis.
Management^Operations Planning and Control Operations Planning and Control Aggregate production planning procedures, disaggregation methods in hierarchical production planning, master production scheduling, material requirements planning, lot-sizing, and capacity planning. Not available to baccalaureate business students in Smeal.
Management^Strategic Design and Management of Supply Chains Strategic Design and Management of Supply Chains Strategic design and management of supply chains.
Management^Logistics Systems Analysis and Design Logistics Systems Analysis and Design Customer service, inventory management, transportation, warehousing, purchasing, international logistics, site location planning and analysis, and total cost analysis.
Management^Purchasing and Materials Management Purchasing and Materials Management Purchasing policies, procedures, order specifications and agreements, supplier selection, and the role of purchasing in production planning and inventory management. Not available to baccalaureate business students in Smeal.
Management^Electronic Business Management Electronic Business Management A problem-based exploration of the various electronic business tools and technologies required to efficiently manage a supply chain. Not available to baccalaureate business students in Smeal.
German^Elementary German I Elementary German I Introduction to listening, speaking, reading, and writing with emphasis on the first two skills; cultural aspects through readings and videos. Students who have received high school credit for two or more years of German may not schedule this course for credit, without the permission of the department.
German^Elementary German II Elementary German II Continuation of GER 001; further introduction of basic structures, culture, and development of four basic skills stressing aural-oral aspects. Students who have received high school credit for four or more years of German may not schedule this course for credit, without the permission of the department.
German^Intermediate German Intermediate German Continued four-skill development with increased emphasis on reading, writing, and grammatical accuracy; culturally-oriented reading selections and videos. Students may receive credit for only one of the following: GER 003 or GER 008.
German^Business German Business German Introduction to Business German. Students may receive credit for only one of the following: GER 003 or GER 008.
German^Intensive Basic German Intensive Basic German Listening, speaking, reading, writing, basic structures and vocabulary of German. Taught on an accelerated basis. Students may receive credit for only one of the following: GER 001, 011, or 015.
German^Intensive Intermediate German Intensive Intermediate German Continued skill development of structures and vocabulary; listening, speaking, reading, writing. Taught on an accelerated basis. Students may receive credit for only one of the following: GER 002, 003, 012, or 016.
German^Elementary Intensive German for Graduate Students I Elementary Intensive German for Graduate Students I Intensive introduction to German: first half of graduate intensive sequence in elementary reading, writing, speaking, listening, cultural contexts.
German^Elementary Intensive German for Graduate Students II Elementary Intensive German for Graduate Students II Intensive introduction to German: second half of graduate intensive sequence in elementary reading, writing, speaking, listening, cultural contexts.
German^Intermediate Intensive German for Graduate Students Intermediate Intensive German for Graduate Students Continued intensive study of German at the intermediate level: reading, writing, speaking, listening, cultural contexts.
German^First-Year Seminar in German First-Year Seminar in German Germany's cultural past and present.
German^Foreign Study--German Foreign Study--German Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
German^German Culture and Civilization German Culture and Civilization Culture and civilization of the German people from the Germanic migrations to the Nazi period. Conducted in English.
German^The Culture of Stalinism and Nazism The Culture of Stalinism and Nazism The culture of Stalinist Russia and Nazi Germany in comparative perspective.
German^Pennsylvania Germans: The Culture of the Sectarians Pennsylvania Germans: The Culture of the Sectarians Survey of the religious background, beliefs, social life, customs, education, and culture of the Pennsylvania German sectarians, especially the Amish. Conducted in English.
German^Germanic Heroic and Medieval Literature in English Translation Germanic Heroic and Medieval Literature in English Translation Germanic heroic and medieval courtly literature from 800 to 1350 focusing on the prevailing cultural, social, and legal conditions.
German^German Film German Film A survey of German film from its beginnings to the present, with emphasis on historical, political, and cultural contexts.
German^Twentieth-Century German Literature in English Translation Twentieth-Century German Literature in English Translation Works of such writers as Boll, Brecht, Durrenmatt, Frisch, Grass, Hesse, Kafka, Mann, Rilke, Weiss, and Wolf.
German^Modern German Drama and Theatre in English Translation Modern German Drama and Theatre in English Translation Plays and their stage realization by writers such as Brecht, Durrenmatt, Handke, Hauptmann, Kaiser, Schnitzler, Wedekind, and Weiss.
German^Foreign Study--German Foreign Study--German Intermediate training in German language skills.
German^Contemporary German Culture Contemporary German Culture Germany since WWI, its politics, economics, society, arts, and educational system in the international context; conducted in English.
German^Contemporary German Culture Contemporary German Culture Germany since WWI, its politics, economics, society, arts, and educational system in the international context; conducted in English.
German^Conversation and Composition Conversation and Composition Continuation of GER 003; emphasis on reading, writing, and conversational skills; course utilizes short literary selections, a concise novel, videos.
German^Business German Business German Intermediate Business German.
German^The Vikings The Vikings Focus on the history of the Vikings from 800 to 1400 as conveyed to us in mythology, literature, and archaeology. Conducted in English.
German^Foreign Study--German Foreign Study--German Advanced training in German language skills.
German^Intermediate Speaking and Listening Intermediate Speaking and Listening Intensive practice in spoken German through readings, discussions and video.
German^Intermediate Composition and Grammar Intermediate Composition and Grammar Continuation of oral and written practice in German with extensive work in composition.
German^German Business Communication German Business Communication Development of German commerce and industry; extensive practice in the major forms of business communications such as business correspondence.
German^Introduction to the Study of German Literature Introduction to the Study of German Literature History, methods, and the terminology of literary interpretation and analysis in German.
German^Intermediate German Culture Intermediate German Culture An overview of German culture from the Middle Ages to the present. Conducted in German.
German^Foreign Study--German Foreign Study--German Advanced studies in German language and/or literature.
German^Advanced Composition Advanced Composition Intensive practice in writing different text types in German.
German^Advanced German Business Communications Advanced German Business Communications Study of German business organization, forms of business communications, business terminology; writing of reports and abstracts.
German^The Teaching of German The Teaching of German Theory, methods, techniques, materials, bibliography; use of inter-active media; contributions of linguistics or psychology to language learning.
German^Contrastive Analysis of Modern German and English Contrastive Analysis of Modern German and English Structural comparison of the German and English grammatical systems: morphology, syntax, phonology.
German^Genre Genre Special studies in a particular literary genre in German literature, such as lyrical poetry, drama, or narrative prose.
German^History of the German Language History of the German Language Development of German from its earliest stages, including historical and cultural aspects.
German^History of German Literature and Culture I History of German Literature and Culture I Significant works of German literature before the mid-eighteenth century considered in their cultural context.
German^History of German Literature and Culture II History of German Literature and Culture II Significant works of German literature from the mid-eighteenth century to the present considered in their cultural context.
German^Seminar in German Culture Seminar in German Culture Seminar devoted to a special topic in the field of German culture and civilization.
German^Romanticism Romanticism A study of both early and late romanticism, including such writers as Novalis, the Schlegels, E.T.A. Hoffmann, and Heine.
German^Introduction to German Film History and Theory in Context Introduction to German Film History and Theory in Context Introduces films in German since the 1960s and addresses issues relevant to German and European cultures and politics.
German^Gottfried Keller Gottfried Keller The study will focus on the collection of novellas "Die Leute von Seldwyla" by Gottfried Keller.
German^Introduction to Literary Theory Introduction to Literary Theory Introduction to the major theoretical approaches to the contemporary study of culture .
German^Russian Language Pedagogy Russian Language Pedagogy Familiarize student with development of Russian Language pedagogy and specific aspects of teaching Russian.
German^German Culture From the Middle Ages to the Present German Culture From the Middle Ages to the Present Examination of German culture from the Middle Ages to the Present. Topics include Medieval Culture, Romanticism, World Wars I and II, Weimar Culture, the Holocaust, the Wall, Reunification, Turkish-German relationships.
German^German Slang and Non-Standard Variation German Slang and Non-Standard Variation This course will take a closer look at structural and sociolinguistic developments in both standard and non-standard forms of German. Students will gain a deeper knowledge of changes underway in the structure of modern German.
German^Foreign Study--German Foreign Study--German Advanced studies in German language, literature, and culture.
Sociology^Introductory Sociology Introductory Sociology The nature and characteristics of human societies and social life. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from SOC 001 GS or R SOC 011 GS.
Sociology^Honors Introductory Sociology Honors Introductory Sociology The nature and characteristics of human societies and social life.
Sociology^Introductory Sociology Introductory Sociology The nature and characteristics of human societies and social life.
Sociology^Introductory Sociology Introductory Sociology The nature and characteristics of human societies and social life.
Sociology^Introductory Social Psychology Introductory Social Psychology The impact of the social environment on perception, attitudes, and behavior.
Sociology^Honors Introduction to Social Psychology Honors Introduction to Social Psychology This is an honors course that enables students to learn, apply, and evaluate basic social psychology concepts, theories, and research.
Sociology^Social Problems Social Problems Current social problems such as economic, racial, and gender inequalities; social deviance and crime; population, environmental, energy, and health problems.
Sociology^Introduction to Social Research Introduction to Social Research Fundamental concepts and problems in social science research; design, measurement, sampling, causation, validity, interpretation.
Sociology^Criminology Criminology Explanations and measurement of crime; criminal law; characteristics of criminals and victims; violent, property, white-collar, organized, and sexual crimes.
Sociology^Criminology Criminology Explanations and measurement of crime; criminal law; characteristics of criminals and victims; violent, property, white-collar, organized, and sexual crimes.
Sociology^Criminology Criminology Explanations and measurement of crime; criminal law; characteristics of criminals and victims; violent, property, white-collar, organized, and sexual crimes.
Sociology^Juvenile Delinquency Juvenile Delinquency Juvenile conduct, causes of delinquency, current methods of treatment; organization and function of agencies concerned with delinquency.
Sociology^Urban Sociology Urban Sociology City growth and decline; impact of city life on individuals, families, neighborhoods, and government; urban life-styles.
Sociology^Sociology of Popular Culture Sociology of Popular Culture Students are introduced to the sociological study of how popular culture is produced, consumed, and experienced.
Sociology^Population and Policy Issues Population and Policy Issues Local, national, and international population trends; basic techniques of demographic analysis; population problems; implications for public planning and policy.
Sociology^Sociology of the Family Sociology of the Family Family structure and interaction; functions of the family as an institution; cross-cultural comparisons. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from SOC 030 or HD FS 129.
Sociology^Sociology of the Family Sociology of the Family Family structure and interaction; functions of the family as an institution; cross-cultural comparisons. Students may take only one course for General Education credit from SOC 030 or HD FS 129.
Sociology^Sociology of Aging Sociology of Aging Introduction to the sociological study of aging.
Sociology^Wilderness, Technology, and Society Wilderness, Technology, and Society Impact of developments in science, literature, and art on changing attitudes toward nature; consequences for conservation, preservation, environmental ethics.
Sociology^Work in Modern Society Work in Modern Society The nature of work in varied occupational and organizational settings; current trends and work life in the future.
Sociology^Society and Cultures in Modern Israel Society and Cultures in Modern Israel An introduction to the society and cultures of the State of Israel from 1948 to the present.
Sociology^First-Year Seminar in Sociology First-Year Seminar in Sociology Critical approaches to issues in the structure of society.
Sociology^Racism and Sexism Racism and Sexism Critical analysis of the structure of race and gender inequality in the contemporary United States.
Sociology^Sociological Perspectives Sociological Perspectives Intensive and critical analysis of the bases of the social order, change, values, knowledge, and conflict.
Sociology^Sociology of Gender Sociology of Gender Changing sex role expectations and behavior for men and women in contemporary society.
Sociology^Race and Ethnic Relations Race and Ethnic Relations Historical patterns and current status of racial and ethnic groups; inequality, competition, and conflict; social movements; government policy.
Sociology^Inequality in America Inequality in America This course explores the sociocultural dimensions and lived experiences of inequality in the contemporary United States. Our discussions draw on works in anthropology, sociology, economics, history, cultural studies, and investigative journalism to examine how economic policies, exacerbated by the Great Recession, impact Americans divided by identity categories such as race, class, gender, and citizenship. We focus on ways in which the social dynamics that produce inequality are embedded in worlds of cultural meaning and institutionalized as taken-for-granted aspects of everyday life. Structural disparities in income, wealth, and opportunity ultimately raise questions about the kind of society we live in and whether the nation's democratic ideals can survive the extreme polarization of life chances that exist in America today.
Sociology^Persumed Innocent? Social Science of Wrongful Conviction Persumed Innocent? Social Science of Wrongful Conviction Social science of how wrongful convictions occur; disparities in the criminal justice system; risks, factors, and policies.
Sociology^Research Methods in Sociology Research Methods in Sociology Experiential-based course covering the four main social research methods: available data, survey research, experiments, and field research.
Sociology^Poverty in Africa Poverty in Africa The course examines the causes, consequences, and dynamics of poverty in African countries.
Sociology^Race and Gender in Society Race and Gender in Society This course will examine the importance of race and gender within the United States by doing so, it will also examine the intersectionality of these concepts.
Sociology^Preceptorship in Sociology Preceptorship in Sociology Supervised experience as a teaching assistant under the supervision of an approved faculty member.
Sociology^Sociology of Health Sociology of Health Sociological concepts and principles operative in public and private areas of health and illness, including cultural, ethnic, and ecological factors.
Sociology^Junior Honors Seminar in Sociology Junior Honors Seminar in Sociology Supervised experience in planning the honors thesis and a sociological career.
Sociology^Senior Research Seminar Senior Research Seminar Major concepts and principles of sociology through reading, data analysis, and writing. Capstone course for senior Sociology majors.
Sociology^Advanced Social Psychology Advanced Social Psychology Analysis of the major theoretical approaches and research findings of contemporary social psychology.
Sociology^Social Influence and Small Groups Social Influence and Small Groups The study of social influence, leadership and status, and social cohesion and commitment processes in small groups.
Sociology^Sociological Theory Sociological Theory Overview of the development of sociological theory; current issues and controversies.
Sociology^Sociology of Deviance Sociology of Deviance Theory and research concerning deviant behaviors and lifestyles viewed as significant departures from a group's normative expectations.
Sociology^Urban Ecology Urban Ecology Spatial and temporal aspects of urban structure; urban growth, neighborhoods, racial and ethnic groups, mental illness; cross-cultural perspectives.
Sociology^Racial and Ethnic Inequality in America Racial and Ethnic Inequality in America The impact of inequality and discrimination on individual and group identity among various racial and ethnic groups.
Sociology^Racial and Ethnic Inequality in America Racial and Ethnic Inequality in America The impact of inequality and discrimination on individual and group identity among various racial and ethnic groups.
Sociology^Racial and Ethnic Diversity and the American Family Racial and Ethnic Diversity and the American Family This course will explore the nature and determinants of racial and ethnic variation in family processes in the United States.
Sociology^Crime, Social Control, and the Legal System Crime, Social Control, and the Legal System Legal and extralegal control; public opinion on crime; criminal justice and correctional processes; legal sanctions; control strategies. Field trip.
Sociology^Advanced Criminological Theory Advanced Criminological Theory This course provides an in-depth look at theories of crime and examines influential empirical studies designed to these theories.
Sociology^Criminal Careers and the Organization of Crime Criminal Careers and the Organization of Crime Research on and theory of criminal careers and crime organizations, emphasizing recruitment and disengagement; offender characteristics and life- styles; policy implications.
Sociology^Sociology of Education Sociology of Education The theoretical, conceptual, and descriptive contributions of sociology to education.
Sociology^Race and Public Policy Race and Public Policy Seminar format course in which sociological theory and research are applied to current race policy issues.
Sociology^Energy and Modern Society Energy and Modern Society Technology and economics of energy resources, production, and consumption; environmental factors, exhaustion, new technology.
Sociology^World Population Diversity World Population Diversity Survey of world diversity in national population growth/composition; the impacts of demographic change on the economic/social life of nations/people.
Sociology^Social Demography Social Demography Social demographic perspectives on fertility, mortality, morbidity, migration, population density, demographic transitions, social mobility, family, the aged, and minorities.
Sociology^Social Change Social Change Critical review of classical and recent theories of social change, emphasizing the transformations occurring in the modern world.
Sociology^Social Change Social Change Critical review of classical and recent theories of social change, emphasizing the transformations occurring in the modern world.
Sociology^Social Conflict Social Conflict An analysis of the variables affecting intergroup and international conflict and cooperation.
Sociology^Homelessness in America Homelessness in America Survey of social science research on homelessness in the contemporary United States.
Sociology^Homelessness in America Homelessness in America Survey of social science research on homelessness in the contemporary United States.
Sociology^Social Stratification Social Stratification Structure and dynamics of class, caste, and status systems; class differentials and social mobility; current theoretical and methodological issues.
Sociology^Family in Cross-Cultural Perspective Family in Cross-Cultural Perspective Sociological analysis of family systems in various cultures and subcultures.
Sociology^Family Disorganization: Stress Points in the Contemporary Family Family Disorganization: Stress Points in the Contemporary Family Focuses on divorce, remarriage, incest, family violence as well as problems associated with family formation and parent-child relations.
Sociology^Social Movements Social Movements Why and how people mobilize to promote or retard social change. Factors predicting success or failure of social movements.
Sociology^Perspectives on Aging Perspectives on Aging An analysis of the demographic, social, and cultural factors affecting the aged population in American society.
Sociology^Family Policy Family Policy An in-depth examination of family policy.
Sociology^U.S. Immigration U.S. Immigration This class examines theories of U.S. immigration and immigrant adaptation, effects of immigration, and policy.
Sociology^Political Sociology Political Sociology Sociological analysis of types of political organization and their relations with other elements of social life.
Sociology^Ethnic Minorities and Schools in the United States Ethnic Minorities and Schools in the United States Analysis of the social and cultural factors which affect educational outcomes among minority pupils, especially Blacks, Hispanics, and Indians.
Sociology^Environmental Sociology Environmental Sociology Examination of the relationship between the physical environment and society.
Sociology^Environmental Movements Environmental Movements Comparative exploration of environmental movements within the context of classical and new social movement theory.
Sociology^Justice and the Environment Justice and the Environment Considers notions of justice in relation to environmental philosophy, environmental movements, and general environmental concerns.
Sociology^The City in Postindustrial Society The City in Postindustrial Society Postindustrial social organization in the United States and Europe; consequences for metropolitan social stratification, community power, and environmental quality.
Sociology^Work and Occupations Work and Occupations Work and occupational life in modern society; work in the past, present, and future.
Sociology^Gender, Occupations, and Professions Gender, Occupations, and Professions The role of gender in shaping contemporary North American patterns of employment, occupational roles, and statuses.
Sociology^Jewish Communities: Identity, Survival, and Transformation in Unexpected   Places Jewish Communities: Identity, Survival, and Transformation in Unexpected   Places Examines the global array of smaller Jewish communities that have flourished outside the main urban centers of Jewish settlement.
Sociology^Sociology of Religion Sociology of Religion Contemporary religion in the global perspective: beliefs, structure, and function of major religious traditions, denominations, and cults.
Sociology^Law and Society Law and Society Law and society studies the social origins of law and legal systems; occupational careers, and decision-making of legal officials.
Sociology^Mood-Altering Substances in Society Mood-Altering Substances in Society Perspectives of cultures throughout the world toward mood-altering substances are reviewed in light of public policy, benefits, and problems.
Sociology^Techniques in Small Group Facilitation Techniques in Small Group Facilitation This course is the training course for students working as facilitators with the World in Conversation Project.
Sociology^Intermediate Social Statistics Intermediate Social Statistics Descriptive and inferential statistics in social research: central tendency and variation, normal distribution, measures of association, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing.
Sociology^Qualitative Research Methods in Sociology Qualitative Research Methods in Sociology Theory, methods, and practice of qualitative data collection, including observation, participant observation, interviewing; supervised projects in natural settings.
Sociology^Senior Honors Seminar in Sociology Senior Honors Seminar in Sociology Supervised experience in planning and writing the honors thesis.
Sociology^Understanding Poverty in the U.S. Understanding Poverty in the U.S. Poverty serves as the root to a host of major individual and societal problems, including: family dysfunction and instability, deficient or inadequate education, poor health, crime and juvenile delinquency, unemployment, and decreasing social mobility. We open the course with an overview of these connections. Three questions anchor the remainder of the course: How do we, as a culture, understand poverty? Why do we hold these views? Are there other ways to understand poverty that coule be more effectively guide our efforts to address poverty? We explore both change and consistency in how poverty has been viewed over the last 200 years, asking how past attempts to address poverty  have been shaped by and have shaped these understandings.
Sociology^Spatial Inequality Spatial Inequality This course will examine the vast array of spatial data that are available and explore how the different forms of spatial data can be integrated in research.
Sociology^Applied Spatial Inequality Applied Spatial Inequality This course will examine the vast array of spatial data that are available and explore how the different forms of spatial data can be integrated in research.
Sociology^Gender and Health Over the Life Course Gender and Health Over the Life Course Ths course surveys the health of men and women over the life course-from birth to old age-and how and why many important health issues impact males and females differently.
Sociology^Health, Disease, and Society Health, Disease, and Society This course focuses on health and disease by variation of age, gender, race/ethnicity, disability status, socioeconomic status and neighborhood and community.
Sociology^Social Network Analysis Social Network Analysis Learn to understand, analyze, and graph social networks . Apply skills to network data you collect.
Sociology^Foreign Study--Sociology Foreign Study--Sociology Study, in selected foreign countries, of groups, institutions, and social problems.
Material Science^Materials in Today's World Materials in Today's World A survey of the properties, manufacture, and uses of polymers, ceramics and metals in today's world with emphasis on modern developments and new materials.
Material Science^High-Tech Materials High-Tech Materials A series of introductory seminars concerning the most important aspects of modern materials technology; some laboratory visits will be included.
Material Science^Polymers, Life and Society Polymers, Life and Society An exploration of the science and use of polymer materials and their impact on society using a case study approach.
Material Science^Energy and the Environment Energy and the Environment Energy utilization and technological development, energy resources, conversion and consequences on the local and global environment, and future energy alternatives.
Material Science^Energy and the Environment Energy and the Environment Energy utilization and technological development, energy resources, conversion and consequences on the local and global environment, and future energy alternatives.
Material Science^Applied Materials Chemistry for Engineers Applied Materials Chemistry for Engineers Chemistry of materials with emphasis on intermolecular forces between atoms, molecules, ions, and dense materials and inorganic and organic physical chemistry. In most majors, this course is not a substitute for CHEM 013 or CHEM 112.
Material Science^Introduction to Materials Science Introduction to Materials Science Concepts of relationships between structure and thermal, optical, magnetic, electrical, and mechanical properties of metals, ceramics, glasses, and polymers.
Material Science^Introduction to Polymer Materials Introduction to Polymer Materials The materials science of organic or soft materials with an emphasis on synthetic and natural polymer.
Material Science^Properties and Processing of Engineering Materials Properties and Processing of Engineering Materials Relationship of structure and processing variables to the properties and service behavior of metals, polymers, and ceramics.
Material Science^Crystal Chemistry Crystal Chemistry Principles of crystal chemistry applied to structures, structural defects and properties of organic, inorganic, intermetallic, and metallic crystals.
Material Science^Thermodynamics of Materials Thermodynamics of Materials Review of equilibrium thermodynamics and applications to metallurgical and material systems.
Material Science^Materials Process Kinetics Materials Process Kinetics A treatment of process kinetics including chemical reaction kinetics and momentum, energy and mass transport.
Material Science^Biomedical Materials Biomedical Materials Describe properties of materials and composites and their in vivo interactions.
Material Science^Surfaces and the Biological Response to Materials Surfaces and the Biological Response to Materials Focus is on the special properties of surfaces as an important causative and mediating agent in the biological response to materials.
Material Science^Nuclear Materials Nuclear Materials Nuclear reactor materials: relationship between changes in material properties and microstructural evolution of nuclear cladding and fuel under irradiation.
Material Science^Phase Relations in Materials Systems Phase Relations in Materials Systems Phase rule; construction and interpretations of equilibrium diagrams; importance of nonequilibrium in materials.
Material Science^Processing of Ceramics Processing of Ceramics Principles of ceramic processing, including powder preparation and characterization, forming operations, and the basic phenomena underlying these operations.
Material Science^Thermal Properties of Materials Thermal Properties of Materials Generation of high temperatures, measurement of temperature, heat transfer and furnace design, thermal stability of ceramic materials, applied thermodynamics.
Material Science^Solid-State Materials Solid-State Materials Structures of metallic, ionic, and covalent solids, amorphous materials, and surfaces; electronic structure; electronic properties of solids and their manipulation.
Material Science^Introduction to Glass Science Introduction to Glass Science Composition, melting, fabrication, properties, and uses of glass; combinations of glass with metals and other materials.
Material Science^Electrical and Magnetic Properties Electrical and Magnetic Properties Electrical conductivity, dielectric properties, piezoelectric and ferroelectric phenomena; magnetic properties of ceramics.
Material Science^Computational Materials Science and Engineering Computational Materials Science and Engineering Introduction to computational material science and engineering. Overview of the computational methods for materials, from atomistic to the continuum scale.
Material Science^Corrosion Engineering Corrosion Engineering Industrial forms of corrosion and preventive methods, and their description in terms of basic thermodynamic and kinetic considerations.
Material Science^Thermochemical Processing Thermochemical Processing Physico-chemical aspects of high temperature extraction and processing of metals and alloys. Design and evaluation of processes and process options.
Material Science^Processing of Metals Processing of Metals Modern methods of shaping metals in liquid and solid states: casting, joining, powder and deformation processing. Design of new technology.
Material Science^Aqueous Processing Aqueous Processing A study of the chemical and engineering principles pertinent to metal processing in aqueous systems: hydrometallurgical extraction, plating, materials preparation.
Material Science^Microstructure Design of Structural Materials Microstructure Design of Structural Materials Phase transformations in ferrous and nonferrous metal alloys and structural ceramics; processing, structure, and property relationships; heat treatment of structural metals; microstructure development.
Material Science^Materials Characterization Materials Characterization Elements of crystallography and the characterization of crystalline and non- crystalline materials using x-ray diffraction, electron microscopic, and other instrumental techniques.
Material Science^Optical Properties of Materials Optical Properties of Materials Electromagnetic spectrum, interaction of light with materials, color, thin film optical coatings, electro-, integrated and nonlinear optics.
Material Science^Mechanical Properties of Materials Mechanical Properties of Materials Fundamental relationships between structure and mechanical behavior of materials.
Material Science^Nondestructive Evaluation of Flaws Nondestructive Evaluation of Flaws Methods and limitations of nondestructive evaluation of mechanical flaws; optical, acoustical, electromagnetic, x-ray, radiography, thermography, and dye techniques.
Material Science^Polymeric Materials I Polymeric Materials I Manufacture of industrially significant polymers together with discussion of their major chemical, physical, and mechanical properties.
Material Science^Introduction to the Materials Science of Polymers Introduction to the Materials Science of Polymers Introduction to the nature and structure of high polymers. Characteristics of polymers and polymer systems.
Material Science^Solid State Properties of Polymeric Materials Solid State Properties of Polymeric Materials Structure/property relationships in the bulk solid state of polymers. Characterization of bulk properties and structure.
Material Science^Thermodynamics, Microstructure, and Characterization of Polymers Thermodynamics, Microstructure, and Characterization of Polymers The properties of individual polymer chains. Theoretical and experimental techniques pertaining to the characterization of polymeric microstructure.
Material Science^Mechanical and Electrical Properties of Polymers and Composities Mechanical and Electrical Properties of Polymers and Composities The mechanical  and electric properties of polymers and poly-based composites.
Material Science^Rheology and Processing of Polymers Rheology and Processing of Polymers This course deals with the fluid mechanics, rheology, and processing of polymeric materials.
Material Science^Polymer Processing Technology Polymer Processing Technology Basic principles of polymer melt processing are reviewed and subsequently applied to the most important industrial processing operations.
Material Science^Synthesis and Processing of Electronic and Photonic Materials Synthesis and Processing of Electronic and Photonic Materials The materials science of applying thin film coatings, etching, and bulk crystal growth; includes materials transport, accumulation, epitaxy, and defects.
Material Science^Properties and Characterization of Electronic and Photonic Materials Properties and Characterization of Electronic and Photonic Materials Materials characterization in general; electrical properties of crystals, contacts, films; optical properties of single phase materials, waveguide, and multilayer stacks.
Material Science^Introductory Laboratory in Materials Introductory Laboratory in Materials An introduction to comparative physical properties and characteristics of various materials including mechanical, electrical thermal, and structure/ morphology.
Material Science^General Properties Laboratory in Materials General Properties Laboratory in Materials An introduction to comparative physical properties of various materials including mechanical, thermal electrical properties and the measurement of said properties.
Material Science^Characterization and Processing of Electronic and Photonic Materials       Laboratory Characterization and Processing of Electronic and Photonic Materials       Laboratory Provides experience with key processing methods for EPM materials and advanced characterization methods for EPM materials and simple device structures.
Material Science^Ceramics Laboratory III Ceramics Laboratory III Cermaic processing and powder characteristics.
Material Science^Metallurgy Laboratory I Metallurgy Laboratory I A laboratory integrating experimental aspects of material contained in MATSE 402, 413, and 410, e.g. phase diagram determination, solidification micro- structures, etc.
Material Science^Metallurgy Laboratory II Metallurgy Laboratory II Application of principles of mechanical metallurgy, pyroprocessing, corrosion and metal processing.
Material Science^Polymeric Materials Laboratory--Synthesis Polymeric Materials Laboratory--Synthesis Principles and practices of polymerization, including condensation, free radical , ionic, and Zeigler-Natta procedures.
Material Science^Polymeric Materials Laboratory--Characterization Polymeric Materials Laboratory--Characterization Principles and practices involved in determination of properties, structure and morphology, employing thermal, mechanical, spectroscopic, viscometric and computer techniques.
Material Science^Particulate Materials Processing Particulate Materials Processing Fundamentals of processing particulate materials including production, characterization, handling, compaction, and sintering of metal, carbide, intermetallic, and composite powders.
Material Science^Simulation and Design of Nanostructures Simulation and Design of Nanostructures Introduction to computer simulation techniques and their applications at the physical/life sciences interface.
Material Science^International Internship in Materials: Research Definition and Methodology International Internship in Materials: Research Definition and Methodology A course focused on international research, specific design and methodology, facilitated through the International Internship in Materials and Program.
Material Science^International Internship in Materials: Experimentation and Documentation International Internship in Materials: Experimentation and Documentation A course focused on international research, specifically experimentation and documentation, facilitated through the International Internship in Materials Program.
Material Science^Materials Engineering Methodology and Design Materials Engineering Methodology and Design Designed to familiarize students with the literature and technology developments in the use of, and design with, materials in industrial applications.
Material Science^Materials Science and Engineering Multidisciplinary Capstone Design Project Materials Science and Engineering Multidisciplinary Capstone Design Project This course focuses on multidisciplinary industry-sponsored and community service-based design projects offered in conjunction with the College of Engineering's Learning Factory.
Material Science^Research and Design Senior Project Research and Design Senior Project Continuation of a research problem in materials culminating in a bound thesis describing the work.
Material Science^Research and Design Senior Project Research and Design Senior Project Continuation of a research problem in materials culminating in a bound thesis describing the work.
Material Science^Nanomedical Applications in Materials Science and Engineering Nanomedical Applications in Materials Science and Engineering This course will cover topics in MATSE of special interest for nanomedical applications. Topics include nanoparticle systems for drug delivery and bioimaging, interfaces in biological systems, and material interactions in the physiological environment.
Material Science^Microstructure Design of Structural Materials Microstructure Design of Structural Materials The focus of this course is on understanding the microstructure development and design of structural materials including steel, titanium, aluminum, nickel based alloys, zirconia, and silicon nitrides. The course will begin with understanding the basic physical metallurgy concepts of the ferrous and nonferrous metals and applying these principles to understanding their processing/structure/property relationships. Specifically, the alloying principles, phase transformation behavior, and transformation kinetics for each metal system will be considered indetail. Heat treatment practices  and their affects on the microstructure and mechanical properties of each of these metals will also be studied. The course will also examine the microstructure development of the ceramic materials zirconia and silicon nitride, and how manipulation of these microstructures controls mechanical properties.
Forensic Science^Introduction to Forensic Science Introduction to Forensic Science Introduction forensic science.
Forensic Science^Introduction to Crime Scene Investigation Introduction to Crime Scene Investigation This course offers an exploration of the science, management, and investigative techniques for the field of crime scene investigation.
Forensic Science^Essential Practices of Forensic Science Essential Practices of Forensic Science Practices of forensic science including documentation, microscopy, communication of results, and integration of concepts from other sciences, mathematics, and statistics.
Forensic Science^Research Projects Research Projects Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Forensic Science^Courtroom Proceedings and Testimony Courtroom Proceedings and Testimony Introduction to courtroom proceedings and testimony as they related to forensic science.
Forensic Science^A Scientific Approach to Crime Scene Investigation A Scientific Approach to Crime Scene Investigation Principles of crime scene investigation with empahsis on scientific philosophy, concepts, and procedures.
Forensic Science^Criminalistics: Trace and Impression Evidence Criminalistics: Trace and Impression Evidence Laboratory-based examination of forensic evidence; microscopy, classification and identification.
Forensic Science^Criminalistics: Biology Criminalistics: Biology Laboratory-based examination of forensic evidence; biological fluid identification, hair microscopy.
Forensic Science^Laboratory in Crime Scene Investigation Laboratory in Crime Scene Investigation Laboratory course covering crime scene investigation with emphasis on scientific philosophy, concepts, procedures, problem solving, and hands-on activities.
Forensic Science^Forensic Molecular Biology Forensic Molecular Biology Concepts and application of serology of molecular biology techniques to analyze biological evidence collected at crime scenes.
Forensic Science^Forensic Chemistry Forensic Chemistry Analytical and instrumental methods used in the forensic sciences with special emphasis on the analysis and characterization of trace evidence.
Forensic Science^Forensic Science Seminar Forensic Science Seminar Presentation and discussion of special issues in forensic science; extension and application of background knowledge to unusual topics and cases.
Forensic Science^Coalescence of Forensic Science Concepts. Coalescence of Forensic Science Concepts. Advanced concepts in criminalistics as they apply to criminal and civil investigations.
Forensic Science^Research Projects Research Projects Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
History^The Western Heritage I The Western Heritage I A survey of the Western heritage from the ancient Mediterranean world to the dawn of modern Europe.
History^The Western Heritage I The Western Heritage I A survey of the Western heritage from the ancient Mediterranean world to the dawn of modern Europe.
History^The Western Heritage II The Western Heritage II A survey of the Western heritage from the dawn of modern Europe in the seventeenth century to the present.
History^The Western Heritage II The Western Heritage II A survey of the Western heritage from the dawn of modern Europe in the seventeenth century to the present.
History^The American Nation:  Historical Perspectives The American Nation:  Historical Perspectives American history from discovery to the present, focusing on both racial, ethnic, and religious differences and shared traditions and ideals.
History^Ancient Mediterranean Civilizations Ancient Mediterranean Civilizations Survey of the history and cultures of anicent Mediterranean civilizations in Mesopotamia, Egypt, Syro-Levant, Anatolia, Greece, and Rome.
History^Ancient Mediterranean Civilizations Ancient Mediterranean Civilizations Survey of the history and cultures of anicent Mediterranean civilizations in Mesopotamia, Egypt, Syro-Levant, Anatolia, Greece, and Rome.
History^World History I World History I Human origins; early civilizations; major political and intellectual developments on all continents; cultural interrelationships to 1500.
History^World History II World History II Social, economic, and political evolution of societies and cultures from 1500 to the present.
History^History of Pennsylvania History of Pennsylvania Chronological and topical survey, emphasizing immigration of diverse ethnic groups and religious, political, economic, and social developments, including industrialization and urbanization.
History^American Civilization to 1877 American Civilization to 1877 An historical survey of the American experience from its colonial beginnings through the Civil War and Reconstruction.
History^American Civilization to 1877 American Civilization to 1877 An historical survey of the American experience from its colonial beginnings through the Civil War and Reconstruction.
History^American Civilization Since 1877 American Civilization Since 1877 An historical survey of the American experience from the emergence of urban-industrial society in the late nineteenth century to the present.
History^American Civilization Since 1877 American Civilization Since 1877 An historical survey of the American experience from the emergence of urban-industrial society in the late nineteenth century to the present.
History^American Civilization Since 1877 American Civilization Since 1877 An historical survey of the American experience from the emergence of urban-industrial society in the late nineteenth century to the present.
History^Survey of British History Survey of British History The British Isles and their peoples since the ancient period, emphasizing political, cultural, and intellectual developments and imperial rise and fall.
History^First-Year Seminar in History First-Year Seminar in History Critical approaches to the dimensions and directions in History.
History^Ancient Greece Ancient Greece Greek world from the earliest Aegean cultures to the death of Alexander the Great and the beginnings of Hellenistic civilization.
History^The Roman Republic and Empire The Roman Republic and Empire History of the Roman Republic and Empire from the origins of Rome to the disintegration of the Empire.
History^Canaan and Israel in Antiquity Canaan and Israel in Antiquity Political, social, and intellectual history of the land of Canaan/Israel in the Biblical era: Late Bronze and Iron Ages.
History^The History of Madness, Mental Illness, and Psychiatry The History of Madness, Mental Illness, and Psychiatry This course will examine the ideas that have shaped European and American perceptions of madness, insanity, and mental illness.
History^Ancient Egypt Ancient Egypt The history and archaeology of ancient Egypt from the dawn of history to the Greco-Roman period.
History^The Byzantine Empire The Byzantine Empire Development of Byzantine civilization from the decline of the Roman Empire to the fall of Constantinople.
History^Medieval Europe Medieval Europe Rise and development of the civilization of medieval Europe from the decline of Rome to 1500.
History^The Crusades: Holy War in the Middle Ages The Crusades: Holy War in the Middle Ages The social and political history of medieval religious warfare in Europe and in the Middle East.
History^The Crusades: Holy War in the Middle Ages The Crusades: Holy War in the Middle Ages The social and political history of medieval religious warfare in Europe and in the Middle East.
History^Nature and History Nature and History A broad introduction to the history of human relationships with nature throughout the world.
History^American Food System: History, Technology, and Culture American Food System: History, Technology, and Culture A cultural analysis of the evolution of U.S. agricultural production and food consumption patterns, the food industry and food marketing.
History^Baseball in Comparative History Baseball in Comparative History Comparative survey of baseball history from its beginnings to the present.
History^American Jewish History and Culture American Jewish History and Culture Examination of the history, culture, social tensions, and contributions of Jews and Judaism in America.
History^The American Jewish Experience The American Jewish Experience Examination of the history, culture, social tensions, and contributions of Jews and Judaism in America.
History^Family and Sex Roles in Modern History Family and Sex Roles in Modern History Historical perspectives on the Western family since 1500: gender roles, marriage, sexuality, child rearing, and old age; emphasis on United States.
History^Women in Modern History Women in Modern History Modernization and women: changing images and roles since mid-eighteenth century in the family, workshop, politics, society; cross-cultural comparisons.
History^Modern Jewish History: 1492 to Present Modern Jewish History: 1492 to Present Jewish social and political history from 1492 to the present.
History^Modern Jewish History Modern Jewish History Jewish social and political history from 1492 to the present.
History^Gender and History Gender and History Survey of the development of gender roles in Western societies from the prehistoric era to the early modern period.
History^Europe Since 1848 Europe Since 1848 Political, social, and ideological developments; origin and impact of two World Wars; totalitarianism and democracy; changing role in the world.
History^Europe Since 1848 Europe Since 1848 Political, social, and ideological developments; origin and impact of two World Wars; totalitarianism and democracy; changing role in the world.
History^Europe Since 1848 Europe Since 1848 Political, social, and ideological developments; origin and impact of two World Wars; totalitarianism and democracy; changing role in the world.
History^History of the Holocaust 1933-1945 History of the Holocaust 1933-1945 Historical analysis of holocaust themes.
History^History of Science I History of Science I A history of science and culture from pre-history until the Scientific Revolution.
History^History of Science II History of Science II A history of science and culture from the scientific revolution to the present.
History^History of Western Medicine History of Western Medicine This course explores the history of health, illness, and medicine in western society.
History^Introduction to U.S. Latina/o History Introduction to U.S. Latina/o History This course introduces students to the history of U.S. Latina/os, including Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Chicanos, Cubans, and Central Americans.
History^Introduction to the Civil War Era, 1848 through 1877 Introduction to the Civil War Era, 1848 through 1877 Survey of causes and consequences of American Civil War, end of Mexican War in 1848 through end of Reconstruction, 1877.
History^Introduction to the British Isles, 1400-1800 Introduction to the British Isles, 1400-1800 Survey of the history and cultures of the British Isles from 1400 to 1800.
History^Medieval and Modern Russia Medieval and Modern Russia Introductory survey, including political, social, economic, and cultural development of Kievan, Muscovite, and Imperial Russia.
History^History of Communism History of Communism Marxism; Leninism and evolution of the Soviet Union; formation and development of the Communist bloc; impact of Chinese Communism.
History^History of Fascism and Nazism History of Fascism and Nazism The study of right-wing totalitarianism in the twentieth century, with special emphasis on Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany.
History^The World at War: 1939-1945 The World at War: 1939-1945 In-depth study of the origins and conduct of World War II. Political and economic aspects as well as military.
History^Technology and Society in American History Technology and Society in American History Development of technology in America from colonial times; its reception and its influence on social, economic, and political life.
History^African American History African American History African roots; colonial and revolutionary experiences; slavery and abolitionism; civil war and reconstruction; accommodation and protest; the new militancy.
History^The Indian in North America The Indian in North America A survey of the American Indian from prehistory to the present.
History^The Indian in North America The Indian in North America A survey of the American Indian from prehistory to the present.
History^History of Welfare and Poverty in the United States History of Welfare and Poverty in the United States History of care of the impoverished , 18th century to present.
History^American Business History American Business History Major developments in the history of business and industry from the colonial period to the present.
History^History of the American Worker History of the American Worker A study of the American worker from the preindustrial era to the present.
History^History of American Immigration History of American Immigration The waves of migration to America and an analysis of the resulting minority groups, their reception, assimilation, and persisting identity.
History^History of the FBI History of the FBI Survey of the FBI's history with special emphasis on civil rights and liberties and bureaucratic development.
History^American Naval History American Naval History Introduction to the role of the United States Navy in the defense, diplomacy, commerce, and scientific development of the nation.
History^The Battle of Gettysburg in American Historical Memory The Battle of Gettysburg in American Historical Memory Examines factors shaping understanding of the Civil War's decisive battle and its meanings as a national symbol.
History^Introduction to Islamic Civilization Introduction to Islamic Civilization Islamic history, culture, and religious life c.600-1500 C.E.
History^History of Sexuality History of Sexuality Discusses the ideas, practices, and identities surrounding sexuality over several centuries in a variety of contexts, focusing primarily on the US.
History^Introduction to South Asian History 2: Early Modern to Contemporary Introduction to South Asian History 2: Early Modern to Contemporary An introduction to South Asian history from early modern to contemporary times.
History^Survey of Japanese Civilization Survey of Japanese Civilization Survey of social, institutional, cultural, and religious developments from ancient times to the present.
History^Survey of Japanese Civilization Survey of Japanese Civilization Survey of social, institutional, cultural, and religious developments from ancient times to the present.
History^Vietnam in War and Peace Vietnam in War and Peace Rise of nationalism and communism; origins of conflict; United States involvement; impact on postwar regional and international politics; contemporary Vietnam.
History^The History of Traditional East Asia The History of Traditional East Asia Comparative cultural, institutional, and social history of traditional China and Japan to their contact with the industrialized West.
History^The History of Modern East Asia The History of Modern East Asia Comparative survey of the internal developments and external relations of China and Japan since their contact with the industrialized West.
History^Survey of Indian History Survey of Indian History Survey of cultural, institutional, and political history from ancient times to the present.
History^The Rise of Modern Southeast Asia The Rise of Modern Southeast Asia Study of Southeast Asia from the rise of early empires to the present.
History^Latin-American History to 1820 Latin-American History to 1820 Conquest of the New World, development of colonial institutions, impact on native cultures, and origins of independence movements.
History^Latin-American History Since 1820 Latin-American History Since 1820 Origin, political growth, international relations, and economic status of the Latin-American republics, with emphasis upon present-day conditions.
History^Ancient Warfare Ancient Warfare Historical survey of the evolution of warfare in the ancient Mediterranean region from prehistoric times to the Later Roman Empire.
History^Introduction to the Middle East Introduction to the Middle East Origins of Islamic civilization; expansion of Islam; the Ottoman Empire; the Middle East since 1918.
History^Introduction to the Middle East Introduction to the Middle East Origins of Islamic civilization; expansion of Islam; the Ottoman Empire; the Middle East since 1918.
History^Asian Trade: Economy, Industrialization and Capitalism in Asia Asian Trade: Economy, Industrialization and Capitalism in Asia An historical overview of economy, industrialization, globalization and capitalism in Asia from the 16th century to present.
History^Gender, Family, and Society in East Asia Gender, Family, and Society in East Asia Investigates the history of gender, family, love, and sex in East Asia.
History^Society and Culture in the Pacific War Society and Culture in the Pacific War Examines the role of society and culture in the Pacific War's causes, contexts, realities, and aftermath.
History^Asian Pop: The History of Popular Culture in Asia Asian Pop: The History of Popular Culture in Asia A history of popular culture from the early modern period to the present.
History^Tibet: People, Places and Space Tibet: People, Places and Space This course examines the historical, cultural, and ethnic dimensions of Tibet from the seventh century to the present.
History^Illicit Asia: An Alternative Introduction to Asia Illicit Asia: An Alternative Introduction to Asia A historical introduction to unlawful, illegitimate and forbidden ideas, goods people and places in modern Asia.
History^Early African History Early African History Explores important economic and cultural transformations in the making of early African empires from 1 MBC to 1750.
History^Modern African History Modern African History Impact of the slave trade, expansion of Islam, colonial conquest, social and cultural transformations, resistance, nationalism, and independence.
History^American Local History American Local History Topics in American local history relating local to national developments and studying the historical method by using primary source material.
History^American Antisemitism American Antisemitism The Phenomenon of antisemitism in American history from Peter Stuyvesant to the present.
History^Freedom's First Generation: African American Life and Work, 1865 to World  War II Freedom's First Generation: African American Life and Work, 1865 to World  War II The course will explore the context and events that shaped African American life over the period 1896-1932.
History^Slavery and Freedom in the Black Atlantic Slavery and Freedom in the Black Atlantic The course will explore the history and role of African and African-descent people in Africa, the Americas, and Europe.
History^African American Women's History African American Women's History This course examines the social, political, and economic history of African American women in the United States from slavery to the present.
History^The Jewish and Other Diasporas The Jewish and Other Diasporas Introducrtion to and survey of the Jewish and other Diasporas around the world.
History^Global Diaspora and Exile Global Diaspora and Exile Introduction to and survey of the Jewish and other Diasporas around the world.
History^The Church and the Jews The Church and the Jews Examination of the relationship between Western church and the Jews from the First Century to Enlightenment.
History^Introduction to the Modern Caribbean Introduction to the Modern Caribbean A survey course which explores the historical evolution and emergence of the modern Caribbean.
History^Ghetto: From Venice to Detroit Ghetto: From Venice to Detroit This course explores why certain groups have been segregated in cities around the world in the last 500 years.
History^Sex and Violence in Nineteenth-Century America Sex and Violence in Nineteenth-Century America Historical Overview of Sex and Violence in the Nineteenth-Century United States.
History^American Historiography American Historiography Readings, group discussions, and oral and written reports on great historians, philosophy of history, and conflicting interpretations in American history.
History^Independent Study Independent Study Readings and oral and written reports in areas to be arranged with the chairman of the Honors Committee.
History^Honors Thesis Honors Thesis Research paper in an area arranged with the chairman of the Honors Committee.
History^Honors Course in History Honors Course in History No description available.
History^Scope and Methods of History Scope and Methods of History A course designed to introduce students to the analysis, methods, and practices of historical writing and research.
History^Undergraduate Seminar Undergraduate Seminar Thematic or topical investigation; emphasis on historical criticism and analysis.
History^Undergraduate Seminar Undergraduate Seminar Thematic or topical investigation; emphasis on historical criticism and analysis.
History^Undergraduate Seminar Undergraduate Seminar Thematic or topical investigation; emphasis on historical criticism and analysis.
History^Contemporary World History and Issues Contemporary World History and Issues Aspects of global history in 20th and 21st centuries and study of selected trends and controversies.
History^Contemporary World History and Issues Contemporary World History and Issues Aspects of global history in 20th and 21st centuries and study of selected trends and controversies.
History^Foreign Study--History Foreign Study--History Study in selected foreign countries of various periods and topics in history.
History^Research in Ancient Sources Research in Ancient Sources Guided research in the literature of ancient Mediterranean civilizations.
History^Ancient Technologies and Socio-cultural History in the Ancient Levant Ancient Technologies and Socio-cultural History in the Ancient Levant Social and intellectual development in the Ancient Levant as they affected and were affected by technological development.
History^The Rise of the Greek Polis The Rise of the Greek Polis Development of the Greek city-state from Homeric times to the fifth century B.C.; special references to Athenian society.
History^Alexander the Great and the Hellenistic World Alexander the Great and the Hellenistic World The career of Alexander, his impact on his own time, and the Hellenistic legacy.
History^The Roman Empire The Roman Empire The political and social history of the Roman empire; economic institutions and religious groups which influenced Roman administration.
History^Research in Medieval Sources Research in Medieval Sources Guided research in the literature of medieval Europe.
History^Early Medieval Society Early Medieval Society Rise of European nations and evolution of their social and political institutions from the time of Constantine to the Crusades.
History^Church and State in the High Middle Ages Church and State in the High Middle Ages European political, institutional, and social history in light of church- state tensions from the Crusades to the Renaissance.
History^European Anti-Semitism from Antiquity to the Present European Anti-Semitism from Antiquity to the Present Surveys the history of anti-Semitism in Europe from antiquity through the Middle Ages to the present.
History^Antisemitisms Antisemitisms Surveys the history of anti-Semitism from antiquity through the Middle Ages to the present.
History^Jews in the Medieval World Jews in the Medieval World Trends in medieval Jewish society under Islam and Western Christendom.
History^Medieval Britain Medieval Britain Political, cultural, and economic history of Britain from circa 400 to 1485 with an emphasis on the kingdom of England.
History^Intellectual History of the Middle Ages Intellectual History of the Middle Ages Intensive study of selected topics, such as philosophy, mysticism, heresy, the church, literary and artistic expression, and science.
History^Medieval Celtic Studies Medieval Celtic Studies Celtic civilization from antiquity to the end of the middle ages.
History^Renaissance and Reformation Renaissance and Reformation The transformation of consciousness from medieval to modern times, with special emphasis on Renaissance Italy and Reformation Germany.
History^Race, Gender, and Politics in the United States and South Africa Race, Gender, and Politics in the United States and South Africa This thematic course will compare key issues, figures, and events in the historical development of the United States and South Africa.
History^Zionist History 1890-1948 Zionist History 1890-1948 History of Zionist thought and politics to the foundation of Esrael 1948.
History^Zionism Zionism History of Zionist thought and politics to the foundation of Israel 1948.
History^The Age of Absolutism The Age of Absolutism Seventeenth- and eighteenth-century royal absolutism in France, Prussia, and Austria; concurrent economic, social, and scientific developments; the Enlightenment.
History^The French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era The French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era Development of revolutionary France and the First French Empire and their impact on Europe from 1789 to the Vienna settlement.
History^The French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era The French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era Developments of revolutionary France and the First French Empire and their impact on Europe from 1789 to the Vienna settlement.
History^The History of Feminist Thought The History of Feminist Thought A critical analysis of European and United States feminist thought from the renaissance to the present.
History^Recent European History Recent European History Impact of two World Wars in twentieth century; social conflict and economic catastrophe; political radicalism; post-1945 recovery and cooperation.
History^The History of European Women The History of European Women European women's lives from the Middle Ages to the present.
History^Religion and American Culture Religion and American Culture Selected topics, problems, or historical movements in American religion. Relation between religion and American culture.
History^Monotheism and the Birth of the West Monotheism and the Birth of the West The birth of monotheism and its relation to social organization, the idea of individuality, and science.
History^Germany Since 1860 Germany Since 1860 Bismarckian power-state; rise to economic dominance; welfare and warfare under Weimar republic and Hitler; post-1945 reconstruction and democracy.
History^The Darwinian Revolution The Darwinian Revolution The origins and implications of evolutionary theory.
History^Europe in the Age of Nationalism, 1789-1914 Europe in the Age of Nationalism, 1789-1914 Emphasizing the role of nationalism in European cultural, diplomatic and imperial developments; concurrent economic and social changes.
History^Eastern Europe in Modern Times Eastern Europe in Modern Times Influence of geography, economic conditions, and nationalism upon the Eastern European and Balkan peoples; Pan-Slavism, conflicting interests of the great powers.
History^Black Liberation and American Foreign Policy Black Liberation and American Foreign Policy This course deals with American foreign policy and Black liberation in Africa since 1945.
History^Between Nation and Empire: The Caribbean in the 20th Century Between Nation and Empire: The Caribbean in the 20th Century An exploration of the political evolution of the Caribbean Region over the course of the 20th Century.
History^Imperial Russia, 1700-1917 Imperial Russia, 1700-1917 Enlightened absolutism, mercantilism, westernization; economic progress, liberal reforms, and revolutionary movement; major intellectual and cultural trends; Russia as great power.
History^History of the Soviet Union History of the Soviet Union Revolution; social, political, economic, and cultural continuity and change in the U.S.S.R. since 1917.
History^Topics in European History Topics in European History Study of a particular period or country in European history, its significance and relation to other areas and the present.
History^Great Britain Under the Tudors and Stuarts, 1485-1688 Great Britain Under the Tudors and Stuarts, 1485-1688 Religious, political, and constitutional developments in the British Isles.
History^Great Britain 1688-1867 Great Britain 1688-1867 Social, economic, and political history of Great Britain from late Stuart times until the mid-Victorian era.
History^Great Britain 1867-Present Great Britain 1867-Present Social, economic, and political history of Great Britain from the mid- Victorian era to the present.
History^Women and the Holocaust Women and the Holocaust Analysis of women's experience in the Holocaust and exploration of the role of gender in Holocaust Studies.
History^Colonial America to 1753 Colonial America to 1753 Background, establishment, and growth of the American colonies, including economic, political, social, religious, and intellectual developments.
History^Revolutionary America, 1753-1783 Revolutionary America, 1753-1783 Forces in Great Britain and America causing withdrawal of thirteen colonies from the British Empire and the Revolutionary War.
History^The Early American Republic, 1783-1850 The Early American Republic, 1783-1850 Confederation and Constitution; the Federalist and Jeffersonian periods; "the Era of Good Feelings"; "the Age of Jackson."
History^The United States in Civil War and Reconstruction--1850-1877 The United States in Civil War and Reconstruction--1850-1877 Causes of the Civil War; conduct of the war, North and South; impact of the war; problems of Reconstruction.
History^The United States in Civil War and Reconstruction--1850-1877 The United States in Civil War and Reconstruction--1850-1877 Causes of the Civil War; conduct of the war, North and South; impact of the war; problems of Reconstruction.
History^The United States in Civil War and Reconstruction--1850-1877 The United States in Civil War and Reconstruction--1850-1877 Causes of the Civil War; conduct of the war, North and South; impact of the war; problems of reconstruction.
History^The Emergence of Modern America The Emergence of Modern America Economic, social, political history of the United States, 1877-1919, emphasizing growth of industrialism and development as a modern nation.
History^America Between the Wars America Between the Wars The Roaring Twenties, the Great Crash, Depression, and New Deal; war debts, reparations, isolationism, and World War II.
History^Recent American History Recent American History Contemporary economic, social, and political aspects of the United States and its role as a world power since 1945.
History^America in the 1960s America in the 1960s Social, political, and cultural themes in the United States in the 1960s.
History^Constitutional History of the United States to 1877 Constitutional History of the United States to 1877 Colonial background; framing and adoption of the constitution; development of the court under Marshall and Taney; sectionalism, Civil War, Reconstruction.
History^Constitutional History of the United States Since 1877 Constitutional History of the United States Since 1877 Constitutional developments from laissez-faire to the welfare state; imperialism, war, internationalism; the contemporary court, civil liberties, and civil rights.
History^Constitutional History of the United States Since 1877 Constitutional History of the United States Since 1877 Constitutional developments from laissez-faire to the welfare state; imperialism, war, internationalism; the contemporary court, civil liberties, and civil rights.
History^The Consumer Revolution The Consumer Revolution The origins and impact of American consumer society since 1870.
History^History of U.S. Foreign Relations History of U.S. Foreign Relations History of U.S. foreign relations since 1789; emphasis on twentieth century.
History^American Environmental History American Environmental History The history of the ways Americans have used and thought about the environment since 1500.
History^American Military History American Military History Development of U.S. military policy, 1776 to the present, emphasizing the conduct of our wars, interrelationship of civil and military authority.
History^The Social History of American Vernacular Building, 1607-1980 The Social History of American Vernacular Building, 1607-1980 Social, historical, and cultural context of American building including settlements, housing, workplaces, stores, recreational facilities; changes over time.
History^History of Work in America History of Work in America A study of selected problems in the history of work in the United States, especially since 1877.
History^Social and Cultural History of the United States Since 1783 Social and Cultural History of the United States Since 1783 Role of immigration, social reform movements, religion, education, science, literature, and the arts in American history.
History^United States Foreign Intelligence United States Foreign Intelligence Aims, methods, and organization of U.S. foreign intelligence from the American Revolution to the Cold War and beyond.
History^The Emergence of the American City: 1100-1880 The Emergence of the American City: 1100-1880 The growth of American cities from their urban origins in Europe and the Native-American Southwest to 1880.
History^The Twentieth Century City The Twentieth Century City Political, economic, social, and cultural transformations in American cities from 1880 to 2000.
History^American Thought to 1865 American Thought to 1865 (3 Introduction to, scholarly commentary on, major documents of American Intellectual history, early colonial period to end of the Civil War.
History^American Thought from 1865 American Thought from 1865 Introduction to, scholarly commentary on, major documents of American Intellectual history from end of the Civil War to the present.
History^The Post-World War II Civil Rights Movement The Post-World War II Civil Rights Movement The civil rights struggle and its impact upon American politics.
History^Lesbian and Gay History Lesbian and Gay History Critical exploration of the history of sexuality, focusing especially on the emergence of modern lesbian and gay identities.
History^Latin America and the United States Latin America and the United States Historical development of policies of the United States with regard to Latin- American affairs from colonial times to the present.
History^Mexico and the Caribbean Nations in the Twentieth Century Mexico and the Caribbean Nations in the Twentieth Century Political, economic, and social development in Mexico and the Caribbean since 1900. Emphasis on Mexican, Guatemalan, and Cuban revolutions.
History^Drugs and Drug Policy in the United States Drugs and Drug Policy in the United States Examines the history and dimensions of drug use and analyzes the impact of drug policy.
History^Modern Bondage: Slavery in the Americas, 1492-1888 Modern Bondage: Slavery in the Americas, 1492-1888 The work, culture, ideology, and political economy of slavery in the Americas between 1500 and 1888.
History^Classical Islamic Civilization, 600-1258 Classical Islamic Civilization, 600-1258 Pre-Islamic Arabia; Muhammad; Arab conquests; Islamic beliefs and institutions; literary, artistic, and scientific achievements; relations with Europe; breakdown of unity.
History^The Ottoman Empire and Other Muslim States The Ottoman Empire and Other Muslim States Turkish and Mongol invasions; Mamluks; Ottoman expansion and institutions; Safavid Persia; disintegration and reform; emergence of modern Turkey and Iran.
History^The Contemporary Middle East The Contemporary Middle East Political, economic, and social changes in Turkey, Iran, Israel, and the Arab countries in the twentieth century; Arab-Israeli conflict.
History^Early Modern Japan Early Modern Japan Japanese history from 1580-1880.
History^The Making and Emergence of Modern India The Making and Emergence of Modern India India's transition to social, economic, and political modernity through the experience of British colonial rule and the nationalist struggle.
History^Technology & Society in Modern Asia Technology & Society in Modern Asia Role of technology in modernization, national identity, and foreign relations of an Asian country from 19th century to present day.
History^American Military History to 1900 American Military History to 1900 Development of United States military policy, 1776-1900, emphasizing conduct of wars, interrelationship of civil and military authority.
History^American Military History Since 1900 American Military History Since 1900 Development of United States military policy in the 20th and 21st centuries, emphasizing conduct of wars, interrelationship of civil and military authority.
History^History of Imperialism and Nationalism in Africa History of Imperialism and Nationalism in Africa Theories and types of imperialism; varied patterns of colonial administration; initial African responses; nationalism; decolonization and independence.
History^Japan in the Age of Warriors Japan in the Age of Warriors An overview of Japan the 10th to 17th century, a period of political decentralization, cultural efflorscence, and social change.
History^Modern Japan Since 1800 Modern Japan Since 1800 The transformation of Japan from a relatively isolated, agricultural nation into a highly industrialized world power.
History^Confucius and the Great Books of Early China Confucius and the Great Books of Early China This course familiarizes students with the critical texts and intellectual cultures of Warring States and early imperial China.
History^Middle China Middle China The social, political, and cultural issues and developments from the 8th to 16th century.
History^History of Chinese Thought History of Chinese Thought A study of the dynamic historical development of Chinese thought with its diverse expressions from antiquity to the present.
History^China's Last Empire: The Qing Dynasty, 1644-1911 China's Last Empire: The Qing Dynasty, 1644-1911 China from 1644 founding of Qing dynasty to 1911 fall; Chinese society and institutions, imperialism and China's internal diversity.
History^China in Revolution China in Revolution China from 1900 to the present; nationalism, cultural change; development of communism.
History^American Diplomacy, 1776-1914 American Diplomacy, 1776-1914 Developments in the foreign policy of the United States from independence to the eve of World War I.
History^American Diplomacy Since 1914 American Diplomacy Since 1914 Developments in the foreign policy of the United States since the eve of World War I.
History^International Culture in East Asia International Culture in East Asia Study of the role of culture in East Asian regional and East-West international relations.
History^Archival Management Archival Management Introduction to the principles and procedures in the management of archives and historical manuscripts.
History^British Civil Wars and Revolutions, 1639-1651 British Civil Wars and Revolutions, 1639-1651 This is an advanced course on the history of the general crisis in the British Isles, from the outbreak of war between England and Scotland in 1639 to the securing of the Commonwealth regime following the desstruction of the last major royalist army in 1651.
History^Witchcraft in Early Modern Europe Witchcraft in Early Modern Europe Survey of the social, economic, political, and religious conditions of accusations and prosecutions of witchcraft in western Europe and north America, from 1500 to 1700.
History^Japan in the World Japan in the World Study of Japan's foreign relations and position in the international community from the early 19th century to the present.
History^Understanding Poverty in the U.S. Understanding Poverty in the U.S. Poverty serves as the root to a host of major individual and societal problems including: family dysfunction and instability, deficient or inadequate education, poor health, crime and juvenile delinquency, unemployment, and decreasing social mobility. We open the course with an overview of these connections. Three questions anchor the remainder of the course: How do we, as a culture, understand poverty? Why do we hold these views? Are there other ways to understand poverty that could more effectively guide our efforts to address poverty? We explore both change and consistency in how poverty has been viewed over the last 200 years, asking how past attempts to address poverty  have been shaped by and have shped these understandings.
History^Women and the Holocaust Women and the Holocaust This course will seek to offer students the opportunity to explore the role of gender in Holocaust Studies. Specifically, we will focus on two distinct but related questions. First, it is possible to study a uniquely female experience during the Holocaust? Second, if so, how does that knowledge advance our understanding of the larger event? We will look at different environments such as camps, ghettos, hiding, passing, and the partisans, as well as different sources including legal, memoiristic, and documentary, to help us approach these questions.
History^Asian History Through Film Asian History Through Film Explores modern Asian histories through film: how films have depicted past and present, and what they reveal about their times.
History^U.S. Women and Gender in the Twentieth-Century U.S. Women and Gender in the Twentieth-Century This course has two goals. First and primarily, it examines the history of women in the United States from the late nineteenth century to the late twentieth. To that end, it explores the social, political, economic, and cultural developments that diverse women in America participated in and were affected by in over the course of the twentieth century. In addition, this course explores the shifting constructions of gender roles and gender identity throughout the twentieth century.
History^Foreign Study--History Foreign Study--History Study in selected foreign countries of various periods and topics in history.
Computer Engineering^Computers and Computer Hardware Computers and Computer Hardware A brief orientation to University life and resources and an introduction to computers and computer hardware.
Computer Engineering^Digital Design: Theory and Practice Digital Design: Theory and Practice Introduction to digital systems and their design. Topics include combinational and sequential devices and circuits, modern design tools and design practices. Students may take only one course for credit for CMPEN 270 or 271 and CMPEN 270 or 275.
Computer Engineering^Introduction to Digital Systems Introduction to Digital Systems Introduction to logic design and digital systems. Boolean algebra, and introduction to combinatorial and sequential circuit design and analysis. Students may take only one course for credit for CMPEN 270 or 271.
Computer Engineering^Digital Design Laboratory Digital Design Laboratory Introduction to digital design techniques. Students may take only one course for credit for CMPEN 270 or 275.
Computer Engineering^Computer Organization and Design Computer Organization and Design Introduction to major components of a computer system, how they function together in executing a program, how they are designed.
Computer Engineering^Microprocessors Microprocessors Microprocessor architecture; memory system design; assembly language programming; interrupts; the stacks and subroutines; memory and I/O inter- facing; serial I/O and data communications; microprocessors applications.
Computer Engineering^Embedded Systems Design Embedded Systems Design Design/development of embedded systems for data acquisition, process control, and special-purpose computing systems; peripheral interfacing, serial/parallel communications and bus systems.
Computer Engineering^Communication Networks Communication Networks Data transmission, encoding, link control techniques; communication network architecture, design; computer communication system architecture, protocols.
Computer Engineering^Advanced Digital Design Advanced Digital Design Theory, design, and implementation of digital circuits based on combinational and sequential circuits; implementation of designs using hardware description language.
Computer Engineering^VLSI Digital Circuits VLSI Digital Circuits Basic building blocks of CMOS design, design rules, chip planning, layout design, system power and timing, simulation of VLSI structures.
Computer Engineering^Digital Integrated Circuits Digital Integrated Circuits Analyses and design of digital integrated circuit building blocks, including logic gates, flip-flops, memory elements, analog switches, multiplexers, and converters.
Computer Engineering^Digital Design Using Field Programmable Devices Digital Design Using Field Programmable Devices Field programmable device architectures and technologies; rapid prototyping using top down design techniques; quick response systems.
Computer Engineering^Introduction to Computer Architecture Introduction to Computer Architecture Introduction to computer architecture. Memory hierarchy and design, CPU design, pipelining, multiprocessor architecture.
Computer Engineering^Honors Introduction to Computer Architecture Honors Introduction to Computer Architecture Honors course in principles of computer architecture: memory hierarchies and design, I/O organization and design, CPU design and advanced processors.
Computer Engineering^Operating Systems Operating Systems Resource management in computer systems. Process scheduling, memory management, file system design, I/O management, Unix operating system.
Computer Engineering^Fundamentals of Computer Vision Fundamentals of Computer Vision Introduction to topics such as image formation, segmentation, feature extraction, matching, shape recovery, object recognition, and dynamic scene analysis.
Computer Engineering^Digital Image Processing Digital Image Processing Overview of digital image processing techniques and their applications, image sampling, enhancement, restoration, and analysis; computer projects.
Computer Engineering^Communication Networks Communication Networks Data transmission, encoding, link control techniques, network architecture, design, protocols, and multiple access.
Computer Engineering^Logical Design of Digital Systems Logical Design of Digital Systems Basic switching theory and design of digital circuits, including combinational, synchronous sequential, and asynchronous sequential circuits.
Computer Engineering^Microprocessors and Embedded Systems Microprocessors and Embedded Systems Microprocessors: architecture, design, assembly language, programming, interfacing, bus structure, and interface circuits and their use in embedded systems.
Computer Engineering^Honors Microprocessors and Embedded Systems Honors Microprocessors and Embedded Systems Honors course in microprocessors: architecture, design, assembly language, programming, interfacing, bus structure, and interface circuits and their use in embedded systems.
Computer Engineering^Microcomputer Laboratory Microcomputer Laboratory Design of digital systems using microprocessors.
Computer Engineering^Functional Verification Functional Verification Introduce concepts, methods, and technology for effective functional verification of modern electronic systems.
Computer Engineering^Computer Engineering Design Computer Engineering Design Engineering design and modeling, engineering economy, project planning, capstone project selections, and technical communication skills.
Computer Engineering^Computer Engineering Project Computer Engineering Project Group or individual design projects in the area of computer engineering.
Computer Engineering^Computer Engineering Project Design Computer Engineering Project Design Computer engineering design project, project management, documentation, reporting, and group and individual communication skills.
Geography^Global Parks and Sustainability Global Parks and Sustainability Introduction to U.S. and global protected areas, with a focus on historical and emerging trends in conservation, sustainability, and socio-ecological systems.
Geography^Physical Geography:  An Introduction Physical Geography:  An Introduction Survey and synthesis of processes creating geographical patterns of natural resources, with application of basic environmental processes in resource management.
Geography^Physical Geography:  An Introduction Physical Geography:  An Introduction Survey and synthesis of processes creating geographical patterns of natural resources, with application of basic environmental processes in resource management.
Geography^Human Geography:  An Introduction Human Geography:  An Introduction Spatial perspective on human societies in a modernizing world; regional examples; use of space and environmental resources; elements of geographic planning.
Geography^Geographic Perspectives on Sustainability and Human-Environment Systems Geographic Perspectives on Sustainability and Human-Environment Systems Introduction to theory, methods, history and contemporary issues in global and regional relationships between human activity and the physical environment.
Geography^World Regional Geography World Regional Geography Introduction to the world as an interdependent community built from unique and independent regions and nations.
Geography^Climates of the World Climates of the World Introduction to climatology, including principal processes of the global climatic system and their variation over space and time.
Geography^Biogeography and Global Ecology Biogeography and Global Ecology Distribution of plants and animals on global, regional, and local scales; their causes and significance.
Geography^Landforms of the World Landforms of the World Distribution of the world's landform features and mineral resources; their characteristics, causes, and significance. Practicum includes correlated field trips and laboratory studies.
Geography^Urban Geography: A Global Perspective Urban Geography: A Global Perspective Introduction to the geography of the world's cities and urban system.
Geography^The American Scene The American Scene Historical perspectives on the social and cultural forces associated with the production of distinctive American landscapes.
Geography^Geography of Developing World Geography of Developing World Patterns of poverty in poor countries; conventional and non-conventional explanations; focus on solutions; case studies of specific regions.
Geography^Elements of Cultural Geography Elements of Cultural Geography Locational analysis of changes in non-Western cultures. Problems of plural societies, economic development, population growth, and settlement.
Geography^Economic Geography Economic Geography The geographic location and organization of economic activities and outcomes at global, national, regional, and local scales.
Geography^Geography of International Affairs Geography of International Affairs Contemporary international affairs in their geographical setting; geographic elements in the development of national power, political groupings, and international disputes.
Geography^Environment, Power, and Justice Environment, Power, and Justice This course explores contemporary themes in human-environment relations through the lens of political ecology.
Geography^Mapping Our Changing World Mapping Our Changing World Fundamental concepts of GIS, cartography, remote sensing, and GPS in the context of environmental and social problems.
Geography^Applied Geographic Information Systems Applied Geographic Information Systems An introduction to GIS  with emphasis on applications and analysis.
Geography^Honors Experiences in International Service Learning Honors Experiences in International Service Learning Classroom instruction with supervised student activity on an honors international community service project.
Geography^Geographies of Sustainability and Food Geographies of Sustainability and Food Examination of food and agriculture through geographic lenses, focusing on human-environment systems, resources, nutrition/health, and social-ecological sustainability and resilience.
Geography^Thinking Geographically Thinking Geographically Learning to think geographically.
Geography^Introduction to Global Climatic Systems Introduction to Global Climatic Systems Introduction to global atmospheric circulation, including tropical, midlatitude and polar subsystems; ocean, land, cryospheric and urban climatic systems and interactions.
Geography^Landscape Ecology Landscape Ecology This course examines the ways in which spatial patterns and spatial processes operate in an ecological context.
Geography^Introduction to Field Geography Introduction to Field Geography Introduction to the methods and techniques for collecting spatial and environmental data for physical geography and ecological studies.
Geography^Biogeography and Global Ecology Biogeography and Global Ecology Dynamics of plant and animal distributions on global, regional, and local scales; their causes and consequences.
Geography^GIS and Social Theory GIS and Social Theory Critical understanding of how to use GIS and tools of regional analysis in the context of postmodern social theory.
Geography^Human Dimensions of Natural Hazards Human Dimensions of Natural Hazards An introduction to natural hazards, integrating physical and social science perspectives.
Geography^Cartography--Maps and Map Construction Cartography--Maps and Map Construction The art and science of creating small-scale maps as a medium for communication and research.
Geography^Image Analysis Image Analysis Introduction to the basic principles of remote sensing, and the analysis of aerial and satellite data.
Geography^Geographic Information Systems Geographic Information Systems Principles and use of geographic information; emphasis is on data acquisition and techniques for computer-aided analysis.
Geography^Spatial Analysis Spatial Analysis Geographic measurement, scaling, and classification; analysis of spatial pattern and structure; geographic covariation and autocorrelation.
Geography^Professional Develompent Seminar in Geography Professional Develompent Seminar in Geography Course provides a toolkit understanding relationship among careers, research, experiential learning, civic responsibility and the discipline of geography.
Geography^Forest Geography Forest Geography This course studies processes that control spatial and temporal change in forests.
Geography^Forest Geography Forest Geography This course studies processes that control spatial and temporal change in forests.
Geography^Climatic Change and Variability Climatic Change and Variability Theories and observations of past, present, and future climatic change and variability; introduction to techniques used in climatic change research.
Geography^Principles and Applications in Landscape Ecology Principles and Applications in Landscape Ecology Introduction to the ways in which spatial patterns and processes operate in an ecological context.
Geography^Satellite Climatology Satellite Climatology A discussion of the application of satellite data to current and planned large-scale climate experiments.
Geography^Comparative Urbanism Comparative Urbanism This course investigates selected urban issues through the lens of comparative urbanism.
Geography^Historical Geography of North America Historical Geography of North America Exploration, settlement, and changing patterns of human occupance from the seventeenth century to the 1930s.
Geography^Geography of the Global Economy Geography of the Global Economy Focus on industrial location theory, factors in industrial location, studies of selected industries and problems of industrial development.
Geography^Geography of Race, Class, and Poverty in America Geography of Race, Class, and Poverty in America This class examines the spatial interactions of race, class and poverty in the United States.
Geography^Gender Geographies Gender Geographies Description and explanation of the links between gender relations and spatial structures.
Geography^Urban Historical Geography Urban Historical Geography Study of the development and transformation of the historical urban built environment.
Geography^Political Geography Political Geography Geographical foundations of political phemomena; significant geographic factors in growth and development of states, boundary problems, population distribution, colonies, and internal and international regional problems.
Geography^Political Geography Political Geography Geographical foundations of political phemomena; significant geographic factors in growth and development of states, boundary problems, population distribution, colonies, and internal and international regional problems.
Geography^Geographic Perspectives on Global Urbanization Geographic Perspectives on Global Urbanization This course reflects critically on a number of issues related to global urbanization, including the culture and political economy of urban space.
Geography^Human Use of Environment Human Use of Environment The human use of resources and ecosystems and social causes and consequences of environmental degradation in different parts of the world; development of environmental policy and management strategies.
Geography^Geography of Water Resources Geography of Water Resources Perspectives on water as a resource and hazard for human society; water resource issues in environmental and regional planning.
Geography^Energy Policy Energy Policy Analysis, formulation, implementation, and impacts of energy-related policies, regulations, and initiatives.
Geography^Politics of the Environment Politics of the Environment This course explores politics related to the use, transformation, valuation, and representation of the environment.
Geography^Global Change and Sustainability - Bulgaria Global Change and Sustainability - Bulgaria Sustainability in the context of climate change, global socioeconomic change and regional transformation in Bulgaria; embedded foreign fieldwork .
Geography^Ecology, Economy, and Society Ecology, Economy, and Society Analyses of major themes in ecology and economic development, poverty- alleviation, and sustainability.
Geography^Human Dimensions of Global Warming Human Dimensions of Global Warming Human dimensions of climate change: human causes, human consequences, and policy implications of global warming.
Geography^Property and the Global Environment Property and the Global Environment This course reviews theoretical and empirical relationships between multiple legal, economic, and cultural approaches to property, and environmental quality and conflicts.
Geography^African Resources and Development African Resources and Development Ecological and cultural factors in the geography of Africa; natural resources and development.
Geography^African Resources and Development African Resources and Development Ecological and cultural factors in the geography of Africa; natural resources and development.
Geography^Dynamic Cartographic Representation Dynamic Cartographic Representation Theory and practice of mapping and geo-representation in a dynamic media context. Applications in science, policy, travel, and education.
Geography^Geospatial Information Management Geospatial Information Management This course examines geospatial data representations and algorithmic techniques that apply to spatially-organized data in digital form.
Geography^Advanced Spatial Analysis Advanced Spatial Analysis Skills and knowledge for applying quantitative methods to analyze information with spatial distributions.
Geography^Applied Cartographic Design Applied Cartographic Design Project-based map production problems with emphasis on map design and advanced mapping tools in geographic information systems.
Geography^Geographic Information Systems Design and Evaluation Geographic Information Systems Design and Evaluation Design and evaluation of Geographic Information Systems and other forms of integrated spatial data systems.
Geography^Energy Industry Applications of GIS Energy Industry Applications of GIS Roles of geographic information systems in energy siting decisions focusing on electric energy transmission networks.
Geography^Labor in the Global Economy: U.S. and South African Perspectives Labor in the Global Economy: U.S. and South African Perspectives This course focuses on how the nature of work is changing in the global economy, and the implications for economic opportunity and inequality in both.
Geography^Exploring Imagery and Elevation Data in GIS Applications Exploring Imagery and Elevation Data in GIS Applications Using imagery and terrain data in typical application scenarios faced by the geospatial professional.
Geography^Topographic Mapping with Lidar Topographic Mapping with Lidar Using airborne topographic lidar to create evaluation models for GIS applications.
Geography^The Nature of Geographic Information The Nature of Geographic Information Orientation to the properties of geographic data and the practice of distance learning.
Geography^Problem-Solving with GIS Problem-Solving with GIS How geographic information systems facilitate data analysis and communication to address common geographic problems.
Geography^GIS Database Development GIS Database Development Database design, creation, maintenance, and data integration using desktop GIS software.
Geography^GIS Programming and Customization GIS Programming and Customization Customizing GIS software to extend its built-in functionality and to automate repetitive tasks.
Geography^Cartography and Visualization Cartography and Visualization Theory and practice of cartographic design emphasizing effective visual thinking and visual communication with geographic information systems.
Geography^Environmental Applications of GIS Environmental Applications of GIS Real-world applications of GIS and spatial analysis to investigate a variety of current environmental issues.
Geography^Acquiring and Integrating Geospatial Data Acquiring and Integrating Geospatial Data Advanced technical, legal, ethical and institutaional problems related to data acquisition for geospatial information systems.
Geography^GIS Application Development GIS Application Development Advanced topics in GIS customization, including the Systems Development Life Cycle, packaging and deployment, and consuming Web services.
Geography^Service Learning Service Learning Classroom instruction with supervised student activity on a group community service project.
Geography^Research Project in Geography Research Project in Geography Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Geography^Research Project in Geography Research Project in Geography Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Geography^Geography Teaching Internship Geography Teaching Internship Supervised undergraduate teaching experience in which students serve as peer tutors, laboratory assistants, or course material developers.
Geography^Internship Supervision and Mentoring Internship Supervision and Mentoring Candidates for the Master of GIS degree sponsor a GIS-related internship for students in Penn State's resident undergraduate program.
Geography^Giscience Internship Giscience Internship Supervised research experience within the Department of Geography's GeoVISTA Center, Gould Center, or an appropriate external agency.
Geography^Population Geography Population Geography Who are we? Who lives where? How did they get there? How do we know? Why should we care?
Geography^Location Intelligence for Business Location Intelligence for Business Understanding location technology and geospatial analysis to support an efficient and effective pathway to better business decisions.
Geography^GIS For Transportation: Principles, Data, and Applications GIS For Transportation: Principles, Data, and Applications This course examines the use of GIS principles, data, and applications that have been developed for the field of transportation.
Geography^GIS for Transportation: Principles, Data, and Applications GIS for Transportation: Principles, Data, and Applications This course examines the use of GIS principles, data, and applications that have been developed for the field of transportation.
Geography^Lidar Technology and Applications Lidar Technology and Applications Understanding lidar systems' design, operation, and data processsing techniques, and product generation to address typical application scenarios faced by the geospatial professional.
Geography^Qualitative Methods in Geography Qualitative Methods in Geography Explores conceptual and practical dimensions of qualitative research. Encompasses developing research questions; ethics; project design; data gathering, management, and analysis.
Geography^Advanced Observation of Earth and its Environment Advanced Observation of Earth and its Environment Course addresses advanced techniques of remote sensing to study Earth and its environment, including UAVs, satellite data reception, data analysis.
Geography^Geospatial Organization Geospatial Organization Students learn how geographers think about the world and how they analyze human activities using social- and behavioral-based science models.
Geography^The Earth's Managers and the Ways We Manage The Earth's Managers and the Ways We Manage Focuses on the livelihoods associated with various communities within South Africa with a focus on Afrikaans, Xhosa, and English communities. The course will also address challenges of urban and rural communities and the availability, accessibility and utilization of natural resources by these communities. In addition, the course will look at the implications of development initiatives on local livelihoods and opportunities for sustainabile development to reduce pressures on the natural environment.
Geography^Sustainable South Africa: Transition From a Chaotic Past to an Uncertain   Future Sustainable South Africa: Transition From a Chaotic Past to an Uncertain   Future Focuses on the impacts of South Africa's social and political history on the current social and physical landscape. The course will also assess crucial pieces of literature written by South Africans about South African, and how various writers, artists and movie directors have portrayed South Africa throughout its history. This course will challenge students to articulate social, ecological, political, and economic challenges in a variety of written formats intended for multiple audiences.
Geography^Decision Making and Problem Solving in a Complex World Decision Making and Problem Solving in a Complex World A project-based course and students will be provided with tools necessary for conducting ecological and social assessment plans as well as developing research proposals that address challenges related to human-environment interactions.
Geography^Sustainable Food Systems Sustainable Food Systems Focus on identifying challenges and opportunities for sustainable food production in the area.
Geography^Managing Our Earth's Natural Resources Managing Our Earth's Natural Resources Introduces students to South Africa's physical landscape by focusing on the various biomes found within South Africa. Students will learn about, experience and discuss the climate, soil, vegetation, biodiversity, primary human impacts associated with each biome and the environmental services that are provided by these systems.
Geography^Current Research Opportunities and Challenges in Peru: Geographic and      Interdisciplinary Approaches Current Research Opportunities and Challenges in Peru: Geographic and      Interdisciplinary Approaches Overview of current research opportunities/challenges in Peru, focusing on interactions of biological and cultural diversity; impacts/sustainability of mining and energy; culture and globalization.
Physics^The Science of Physics The Science of Physics Historical development and significance of major concepts, with emphasis on the nature of physics and its role in modern life.
Physics^Physics Behind the Headlines Physics Behind the Headlines Select topics in modern physics with emphasis on understanding science related articles in the news
Physics^Concepts in Mechanics Concepts in Mechanics This is a 9-week remedial course for students who have struggled during the first five weeks of PHYS 211. PHYS 097A will concentrate on basic skills in physics  as well as associated mathematics . If the student has demonstrated a reasonable effort to learn the material in PHYS 211 then the current instructor of PHYS 211 will sign the student into PHYS 097A.
Physics^Technical Physics I Technical Physics I Elementary treatment of topics in mechanics, heat, wave motion, and sound leading toward an understanding of technical applications.
Physics^Technical Physics I Technical Physics I Elementary treatment of topics in mechanics, heat, wave motion, and sound leading toward an understanding of technical applications.
Physics^Technical Physics I Technical Physics I Elementary treatment of topics in mechanics, heat, wave motion, and sound leading toward an understanding of technical applications.
Physics^Technical Physics II Technical Physics II Elementary treatment of topics in electricity, light, and modern physics leading toward an understanding of technical applications.
Physics^Technical Physics II Technical Physics II Elementary treatment of topics in electricity, light, and modern physics leading toward an understanding of technical applications.
Physics^Technical Physics II Technical Physics II Elementary treatment of topics in electricity, light, and modern physics leading toward an understanding of technical applications.
Physics^General Physics:  Mechanics General Physics:  Mechanics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of mechanics: motion, force, Newton's laws, energy, collisions, and rotation.
Physics^General Physics:  Mechanics General Physics:  Mechanics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of mechanics: motion, force, Newton's laws, energy, collisions, rotation, and oscillations.
Physics^General Physics:  Mechanics General Physics:  Mechanics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of mechanics: motion, force, Newton's laws, energy, collisions, and rotation. NOTE: UP offers for 0 credits; Altoona offers for 4 credits.
Physics^General Physics:  Mechanics General Physics:  Mechanics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of mechanics: motion, force, Newton's laws, energy, collisions, and rotation.
Physics^General Physics:  Mechanics General Physics:  Mechanics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of mechanics: motion, force, Newton's laws, energy, collisions, and rotation.
Physics^General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism.
Physics^General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism.
Physics^General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism. NOTE: UP offers for 0 credits; Altoona offers for 4 credits.
Physics^General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism.
Physics^General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism General Physics:  Electricity and Magnetism Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism.
Physics^General Physics:  Fluids and Thermal Physics General Physics:  Fluids and Thermal Physics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of fluids and sound, heat, kinetic theory, and entropy.
Physics^General Physics:  Fluids and Thermal Physics General Physics:  Fluids and Thermal Physics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of fluids and sound, heat, kinetic theory, and entropy.
Physics^General Physics:  Fluids and Thermal Physics General Physics:  Fluids and Thermal Physics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of fluids and sound, heat, kinetic theory, and entropy.
Physics^General Physics:  Wave Motion and Quantum Physics General Physics:  Wave Motion and Quantum Physics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of wave motion, geometrical optics, interference phenomena, photons, wave mechanics, and the structure of matter.
Physics^General Physics:  Wave Motion and Quantum Physics General Physics:  Wave Motion and Quantum Physics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of wave motion, geometrical optics, interference phenomena, photons, wave mechanics, and the structure of matter.
Physics^General Physics:  Wave Motion and Quantum Physics General Physics:  Wave Motion and Quantum Physics Calculus-based study of the basic concepts of wave motion, geometrical optics, interference phenomena, photons, wave mechanics, and the structure of matter.
Physics^Introduction to Relativity Introduction to Relativity Introduction to special and general relativity including space-time diagrams and relativistic kinematics, length contraction, time dilation, equivalence principles, curved space and cosmology.
Physics^Introduction to Modern Physics Introduction to Modern Physics Relativity and quantum theory applied to selected topics in atomic, molecular, solid state, and nuclear physics.
Physics^Introduction to Modern Physics Introduction to Modern Physics Relativity and quantum theory applied to selected topics in atomic, molecular, solid state, and nuclear physics.
Physics^Introductory Physics I Introductory Physics I Selected topics in mechanics, heat, and sound.
Physics^Introductory Physics I Introductory Physics I Selected topics in mechanics, heat, and sound.
Physics^Introductory Physics I Introductory Physics I Selected topics in mechanics, heat, and sound.
Physics^Introductory Physics I Introductory Physics I Selected topics in mechanics, heat, and sound.
Physics^Introductory Physics II Introductory Physics II Selected topics in light, electricity, and magnetism.
Physics^Introductory Physics II Introductory Physics II Selected topics in light, electricity, and magnetism.
Physics^Introductory Physics II Introductory Physics II Selected topics in light, electricity, and magnetism.
Physics^Introductory Physics II Introductory Physics II Selected topics in light, electricity, and magnetism.
Physics^Investigating Sound and Light Investigating Sound and Light This course focuses on the science of sound and light as well as elementary education pedagogy.
Physics^Intermediate Electricity and Magnetism Intermediate Electricity and Magnetism Electrostatics and magnetostatics in vacuum; electrical and magnetic properties of matter; electrodynamics, Maxwell's equations, conservation laws, electromagnetic waves and radiation.
Physics^Electronics for Scientists Electronics for Scientists Circuit and network theory; active devices; amplifiers; introduction to digital electronics; noise theory.
Physics^Subatomic Physics Subatomic Physics Introductory treatment of elementary particles, fundamental strong and electroweak interactions, nuclear structure, accelerators, particle detection, nuclear astrophysics.
Physics^Introduction to Quantum Mechanics I Introduction to Quantum Mechanics I Basic postulates; Schrodinger wave equation; stationary states; variational method; scattering in one dimension; orbital angular momentum; hydrogen atom; numerical methods.
Physics^Introduction to Quantum Mechanics II Introduction to Quantum Mechanics II General theory of angular momentum; approximation methods; scattering theory; radiation theory; applications to atomic, molecular, condensed matter, nuclear and particle physics.
Physics^Solid State Physics I Solid State Physics I Crystal symmetry, x-ray structure analysis, lattice vibrations, thermal properties, free electron transport theory, elementary one-electron quantum theory of solids.
Physics^Solid State Physics II Solid State Physics II Quantum theory of electronic and optical properties of solids, semiconductors, dielectrics, magnetic properties, crystal imperfections, low- temperature effects, and superconductivity.
Physics^Solid State Physics Solid State Physics Crystal structure; reciprocal lattice; X-ray diffraction; lattice vibrations; thermal properties; free electron gas model; energy bands; semiconductors; magnetism.
Physics^Theoretical Mechanics Theoretical Mechanics Principles of Newtonian, Lagrangian, and Hamiltonian mechanics of particles with applications to vibrations, rotations, orbital motion, and collisions.
Physics^Thermal Physics Thermal Physics Basic postulates of statistical mechanics and thermodynamics, microscopic quantum states and macroscopic parameters; partition functions; Maxwell- Boltzmann and quantum statistics.
Physics^Research Methods in Physics Research Methods in Physics Methodology focusing on the theory of measurement and experiment design.
Physics^Intermediate Acoustics Intermediate Acoustics Vibration and simple vibrating systems, sound wave propagation, acoustic instruments, recent developments.
Physics^Topics in Contemporary Physics Topics in Contemporary Physics Modern research topics and career opportunities in physics; employment, graduate education, and tailoring the physics curriculum to meet career goals.
Physics^The Year in Physics:  A Seminar on the Latest Research The Year in Physics:  A Seminar on the Latest Research Discussion recent research in physics.
Physics^Experimental Physics Experimental Physics Selected experiments in various fields of physics.
Physics^Experimental Physics Experimental Physics Selected experiments in various fields in physics.
Physics^Intermediate Optics Intermediate Optics Geometrical and physical optics: theory of lens systems, aberrations, apertures, interference, diffraction, polarization.
Physics^Theoretical Mechanics Theoretical Mechanics Continuation of Math. 419. Theoretical treatment of dynamics of a rigid body, theory of elasticity, aggregates of particles, wave motion, mechanics of fluids.
Physics^Applications of Physics in Medicine Applications of Physics in Medicine Applications of physics in human physiology and in instrumentation for medical diagnosis and treatment.
Physics^Elements of Nuclear Physics and its Applications to Medical Imaging and    Treatments Elements of Nuclear Physics and its Applications to Medical Imaging and    Treatments Introduction to the theory of nuclei, interactions with fast particles, and applications to medical imaging and radiation oncology.
Physics^Special and General Relativity Special and General Relativity Mathematical description, physical concepts, and experimental tests of special and general relativity.
Physics^Physics Research Project Physics Research Project Investigation of an original research problem, including a literature search. Preparation of a formal thesis is optional.
Physics^Synthesizing Antraquinone for Organic Flow Battery Synthesizing Antraquinone for Organic Flow Battery To find a derivative of 9.10-anthraquinone used in the newly innovated organic battery developed by researchers at Harvard University recently. Allow students to find an alternative, and possibly cheaper, compound for the organic battery.
Physics^Physics Research Project Physics Research Project Investigation of an original research problem, including a literature search. Preparation of a formal thesis is optional.
Physics^Networks in Life Science Networks in Life Science Introduction of network analysis and modeling techniques applied to molecular and cellular-level interaction networks.
Geology^Physical Geology Physical Geology Earth processes and their effects on the materials, structure, and morphology of the earth's crust. Practicum includes field work, study of rocks, minerals, dynamic models, and topographic maps.  This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Historical Geology Historical Geology History of the earth and its life; fundamentals of evolution, correlation, and paleogeography; practicum includes field trips, study of geologic maps, geologic problems, and fossils, with emphasis on Appalachian geology.  This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Geology of the National Parks Geology of the National Parks Introduction to geology, geological change, and environmental hazards, as seen in the National Parks.
Geology^Planet Earth Planet Earth Nontechnical presentation of earth processes, materials, and landscape. Practicum includes field trips, study of maps, rocks, and dynamic models, introduction to geologic experimentation.  This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Planet Earth Planet Earth Nontechnical presentation of earth processes, materials, and landscape. Practicum includes field trips, study of maps, rocks, and dynamic models, introduction to geologic experimentation.
Geology^Earth and Life: Origin and Evolution Earth and Life: Origin and Evolution Introduction to the origin and evolution of life on Earth from the perspective of geologic time and the fossil record. This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Volcanoes Volcanoes Basic concepts in Volcanology and Geosciences are explored through a series of virtual field trips to historic eruptions.
Geology^The Sea Around Us The Sea Around Us Introduction to marine sciences and the world ocean, including physical, chemical, biological, and geological aspects of oceanography.
Geology^The Sea Around Us The Sea Around Us Introduction to marine sciences and the world ocean, including physical, chemical, biological, and geological aspects of oceanography.
Geology^The Sea Around Us The Sea Around Us Introduction to marine sciences and the world ocean, including physical, chemical, biological, and geological aspects of oceanography.
Geology^Physical Geology for Engineers Physical Geology for Engineers Principles of physical geology, with emphasis on the engineering point of view; practicum includes field work, study of rocks, minerals, dynamic models, and topographic maps.  This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Earthquakes and Society Earthquakes and Society Introduction to earthquakes and seismology, and their relationship to society, including monitoring for nuclear weapons and seismic hazards.
Geology^The Science of Gemstones The Science of Gemstones An exploration of the geological uses of gems and of the physical and chemical properties underlying their brilliance and color.
Geology^Forensic Geoscience Forensic Geoscience Covers fundamental geoscience concepts such as stratigraphy, mineral and soil identification, seismology, and geochemistry within the context of forensic investigation.
Geology^Earth Materials Earth Materials Elements of crystallography and crystal chemistry; origin, occurrence, and identification of sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rocks and their minerals. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^Chemical Processes in Geology Chemical Processes in Geology An in-depth examination of the application of chemical principles to geological processes.
Geology^Physical Processes in Geology Physical Processes in Geology An in-depth examination of various physical processes that operate within and at the surface of the earth.
Geology^Geobiology Geobiology An introduction to how biological processes and materials are used to solve geological problems.
Geology^Marcellus Shale Marcellus Shale This class is a field based introduction to the geological processes that result in the formation of oil and gas accumulations with an emphasis on the Marcellus Shale.
Geology^Earthquake Information Project Earthquake Information Project Course will focus on earthquake behavior and tectonic structure for major plate boundary zones.
Geology^Introductory Field Geology in Italy Introductory Field Geology in Italy This program will consist of two courses that aim to develop basic field geology skills while assembling a broad range of observations that will lead to an integrated understanding the origin and evolution of the Northern Appennines mountains.
Geology^Introduction to Environmental Geology Introduction to Environmental Geology Origin of earth and earth materials; natural resources, geologic barriers and hazards, and relationships to human use of the environment.  This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Earth History Earth History The principles of stratigraphy and paleontology and their use, in combination with plate tectonics, in reconstructing the earth's history. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^Geology of Climate Change Geology of Climate Change Geologic evidence for climate change and mechanisms of change, especially from the Ice Age through the near future.
Geology^Geomorphology Geomorphology Physical and chemical processes operating at the earth's surface and their resulting landforms. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^The Tectonic Evolution of Italy The Tectonic Evolution of Italy This program will consist of two courses that aim to develop basic field geology skills while assembling a broad range of observations that will lead to an integrated understanding the origin and evolution of the Northern Appennies mountains.
Geology^Natural Disasters Natural Disasters Case studies of the causes and consequences of natural disasters; analysis of disaster impact in different economic, cultural, and social conditions.
Geology^Hydropedology Hydropedology Soil and water interactions across scales, integrated studies of landscape- soil-water relationships, fundamental processes of water flow and chemical transport.
Geology^Geomicrobiology Geomicrobiology Investigation of modern and ancient microbial interactions with soils, sediments, the atmosphere, minerals, rocks, nutrients, and pollutants.
Geology^Marine Biogeochemistry Marine Biogeochemistry Exploration of the ways in which life influences and is influenced by chemical, physical, and geological processes in the ocean.
Geology^Water Resources Geochemistry Water Resources Geochemistry Aqueous geochemistry of silica, alumina, carbonate minerals, and selected metals; organic species in water; isotope geochemistry applied to water.
Geology^Techniques in Environmental Geochemistry Techniques in Environmental Geochemistry This course teaches techniques needed for the collection, chemical analysis, and data analysis of environmental geochemical measurements. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^Geochemistry Geochemistry Element abundance and genesis, application of chemical principles to earth materials, element fractionation in geologic processes.
Geology^Stable and Radioactive Isotopes in Geosciences: Introduction Stable and Radioactive Isotopes in Geosciences: Introduction Discussions on theories for natural isotopic and element variations and their applications to the solution of geologic and cosmologic problems.
Geology^Soil Environmental Chemistry Soil Environmental Chemistry Introduction to chemical constituents and processes occurring in soils. Topics include mineral weathering, soil solution chemistry and adsorption of solutes.
Geology^The Organic Geochemistry of Natural Waters and Sediments The Organic Geochemistry of Natural Waters and Sediments Composition, sources, and fates of particulate and dissolved organic matter in natural environments; biogeochemical processes; organic geochemistry of anthropogenic contaminants.
Geology^Paleobotany Paleobotany Classification, morphology, phylogeny, and stratigraphic occurrence of fossil plants; practicum includes field trips and study of paleobotanical techniques and specimens.
Geology^Vertebrate Paleontology Vertebrate Paleontology Course covers scientific thinking and skills in scientific writing, the history of vertebrates, and modern evolutionary theory applied to vertebrates. This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Paleontology and Fossils Paleontology and Fossils Concepts and precedures using fossils to solve problems in systematics, evolution, biostratigraphy, correlation, sedimentation, paleoecology, and global change.
Geology^Micropaleontology Micropaleontology Biology and ecology of microfaunas and microfloras  and applications in biostratigraphy and paleoenvironmental reconstruction.
Geology^Volcanology Volcanology Phenomena and products of volcanic eruptions; physical characteristics of lava and pyroclastic material.
Geology^Principles of Stratigraphy Principles of Stratigraphy An introduction to the description and genesis of sedimentary rock bodies, the determination of their stratal geometries, and their correlation.  This course contains from one to several field trips for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation.
Geology^Marine Geology Marine Geology Chemical and physical processes affecting the topography and sediments of the sea floor.
Geology^Matlab Applications for Geoscience Matlab Applications for Geoscience An introduction to Matlab: m-file development, descriptive statistics, bootstrapping, Fourier transforms, regression, interpolation, least-squares, differentiation, integration, differential equations, signal analysis, graphics.
Geology^Risk Analysis in the Earth Sciences Risk Analysis in the Earth Sciences An introduction to concepts and methods of quantitative risk anlaysis with focus on water, climate, and energy related risks.
Geology^Natural Resources: Origins, Economics and Environmental Impact Natural Resources: Origins, Economics and Environmental Impact Geologic, economic and environmental issues related to exploitation of non-renewable natural resources .
Geology^Hydrogeology Hydrogeology Hydrologic cycle: occurrence, movement, quality, and quantity of groundwater; solute transport; quantitative hydrogeologic methods; role of water in geologic processes. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee may be charged to the student.
Geology^Geology of Oil and Gas Geology of Oil and Gas Properties, origin, migration, and occurrence of oil and gas. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^Geology of North America Geology of North America Evolution of structural-stratigraphic framework of continent; interpretation of relevant data obtained from field, experimental, and geophysical observation.
Geology^Structural Geology Structural Geology Effects and mechanics of deformation of the earth's crust; practicum includes field trips and studies of maps and structural problems. This course has one or more field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^Introduction to Field Geology Introduction to Field Geology Field interpretation of geologic features; principles and techniques of geologic mapping; interpretation of geologic maps and diagrams. This course has one or more required field trips for which a fee is charged to the student.
Geology^Field Geology I (Introduction to Field Methods Field Geology I (Introduction to Field Methods Introduction to geologic field methods and the 3-D characterization of earth structure and the reconstruction of geologic histories. This course includes travel outside the University for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation, food, and lodging.
Geology^Field Geology II (Advanced Field Methods) Field Geology II (Advanced Field Methods) Advanced application of geologic field methods to the 3-D characterization of earth structure and the reconstruction of geologic histories. This course includes travel outside the University for which an additional charge will be made to cover transportation, food, and lodging.
Geology^Astrobiology Astrobiology In depth treatment of principles/concepts of biochemical evolution, the origin/evolution of life; evaluation of distribution of life in the universe.
Geology^Advanced Stratigraphy Advanced Stratigraphy Modern topics of sequence stratigraphy are addressed, with a heavy emphasis on field and laboratory data analysis and interpretation.
Geology^Environmental Geophysics Environmental Geophysics This course presents the principles and applications of the variety of techniques geophysicists use to address environmental problems.
Geology^Analysis of Time Series Analysis of Time Series Nonstatistical approach to data analysis; spectral and correlation analysis; filter theory; signal-to-noise improvement applied to geoscience data.
Geology^An Introduction to Seismology An Introduction to Seismology An overview of the observations, methods, and frameworks used in seismogram analysis for earthquake and earth-structure investigations .
Geology^Dynamics of the Earth Dynamics of the Earth Constitution and dynamics of the solid earth; mechanics and consequences of Plate Tectonic processes.
Geology^Senior Thesis Senior Thesis Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small group basis.
Geology^Thesis Research Thesis Research Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small group basis.
Geology^Senior Thesis Senior Thesis Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small group basis.
Geology^Geologic Maps in ARCGIS Geologic Maps in ARCGIS This course provides an introduction to Geographic Information Systems  and their use in making geologic maps.
Geology^Introduction to Critical Zone Science and Observatories Introduction to Critical Zone Science and Observatories Introduction to interdisciplinary and emerging science of the Critical Zone using examples and data from U.S. CZ Observations.
Geology^Introduction to Remote-Sensing Introduction to Remote-Sensing Comprehensive introduction to theory and methods in remote-sensing, covering optical, thermal and radar methods and their application in geosciences.
Geology^Geoscience Scholarship Geoscience Scholarship Intended for geoscience majors seeking research careers. Major focus on core skills: writing, speaking, discussion, and scientific literature, professionalism.
Geology^Introduction to Critical Zone Science and Observations Introduction to Critical Zone Science and Observations Introduction to the interdisciplinary and emerging science of the Critical Zone using examples of data from U.S. CZ Observatories.
Music^  BRASS: Trumpet, French horn, trombone, euphonium, tuba KEYBOARD: Piano, organ STRINGS: Violin, viola, violoncello, doublebass WOODWINDS: Flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, saxophonePERCUSSION VOICE For each instrument individual instruction in offered to different types of students at different levels: Primary instrument: Student in B.A.  and B.S.  Levels I-VII  Performance instrument: Students in B.Mus. Level I-VII Secondary instrument: Nonmajor students or others using this as secondary instrument. The courses are designated according to a particular pattern for identification on the student's transcript and in the Schedule of Classes. Applied music fees are required for individualized instruction: $175 for a 1-credit course; $250 for a 2-credit course; $250 for a 3-credit course. Examples of listings:
Music^  For each instrument individual instruction in offered to different types of students at different levels: Primary instrument: Student in B.A.  and B.S.  Levels I-VII  Performance instrument: Students in B.Mus. Level I-VII Secondary instrument: Nonmajor students or others using this as secondary instrument. The courses are designated according to a particular pattern for identification on the student's transcript and in the Schedule of Classes. Applied music fees are required for individualized instruction: $175 for a 1-credit course; $250 for a 2-credit course; $250 for a 3-credit course. Examples of listings:
Music^  Primary instrument: Student in B.A.  and B.S.  Levels I-VII  Performance instrument: Students in B.Mus. Level I-VII Secondary instrument: Nonmajor students or others using this as secondary instrument. The courses are designated according to a particular pattern for identification on the student's transcript and in the Schedule of Classes. Applied music fees are required for individualized instruction: $175 for a 1-credit course; $250 for a 2-credit course; $250 for a 3-credit course. Examples of listings:
Music^  The courses are designated according to a particular pattern for identification on the student's transcript and in the Schedule of Classes. Applied music fees are required for individualized instruction: $175 for a 1-credit course; $250 for a 2-credit course; $250 for a 3-credit course. Examples of listings:
Anthropology^Introductory Anthropology Introductory Anthropology Prehistoric and traditional peoples and cultures; traditional customs and institutions compared with those of modern society.
Anthropology^Introduction to Archaeology Introduction to Archaeology Survey of basic approaches used by archaeologists to interpret basic prehistoric human cultural patterns.
Anthropology^Aztecs, Mayas, and Incas Aztecs, Mayas, and Incas Comparative survey of the development of the pre-Columbian Latin American civilizations.
Anthropology^Rise of Civilization in the Old World Rise of Civilization in the Old World Evolution of Old World complex societies, especially the first great civilizations of Mesopotamia, Egypt, China, and the Indus Valley.
Anthropology^Introductory North American Archaeology Introductory North American Archaeology Introduction to archaeology of the North American Indians; sites, methods, and results of research interpreted in cultural history.
Anthropology^Introductory Biological Anthropology Introductory Biological Anthropology The role of human biology and evolution in culture, society, and behavior.
Anthropology^Humans as Primates Humans as Primates The biological basis of human behavior within the context of primate biology, behavior, and evolution.
Anthropology^Biocultural Evolution Biocultural Evolution Examination of evolutionary models of the development of the human capacity for culture, and of culture as an adaptive mechanism.
Anthropology^Biocultural Evolution Biocultural Evolution Examination of evolutionary models of the development of the human capacity for culture, and of culture as an adaptive mechanism.
Anthropology^Cultural Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Beginnings of human culture; economic life, society, government, religion, and art among traditional peoples.
Anthropology^Cultural Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Beginnings of human culture; economic life, society, government, religion, and art among traditional peoples.
Anthropology^Society and Cultures in Modern Israel Society and Cultures in Modern Israel An introduction to the society and cultures of the State of Israel from 1948 to the present.
Anthropology^First-Year Seminar in Anthropology First-Year Seminar in Anthropology This seminar introduces students to anthropology as a scientific discipline with ties to other social and natural sciences.
Anthropology^First Farmers First Farmers Cross-cultural comparison of the origins of plant and animal domestication and the earliest farming societies.
Anthropology^North American Indians North American Indians An introduction to the cultures of the indigenous peoples of North America, north of Mexico, and the effect of contact.
Anthropology^Hunters and Gatherers Hunters and Gatherers A comparative study of hunter/gatherer societies using both archaeological and ethnographic evidence.
Anthropology^Archaeology and Popular Culture Archaeology and Popular Culture This course examines the representation of archaeology and past cultures "through the lens: of popular movies. Will examine how interpretation and meaning are generated through representation in film. Will touch on important topics including archaeological and anthropological methods, development of anthropology as a science. The history of western imperialism and its influence, myth, looting of archaeological sites and the cultural patrimony, ethics in science, women in science, control of science for political purposes and laws. This course will encourage critical thinking and writing skills.
Anthropology^From Recipients to Donors: Unpacking the Global Development Apparatus From Recipients to Donors: Unpacking the Global Development Apparatus How often have you seen a call to end poverty coupled with images of brown people presumably located on the other side of the globe? Much of the public discourxe about international development focuses on recipients of aid in the so-called "Global South" and their problems and needs. This course shifts your gaze in other directions. We begin by looking from recipients to donors - at the global development apparatus and the development professionals that staff development agencies; we then consider how the tidy formulations of 'donor' and 'recipient' have been upset by the recent phenomenon of the so- called 'emerging donors'. We examine two such donor countries: Russia and China. You will go out and retreive current examples of discourse about donors and recipients of international development assistance and will critically unpack it. The goal of the class is to foster a different way of seeing the workd and the relationships within it.
Anthropology^Inequality in America Inequality in America This course explores the sociocultural dimensions and lived experiences of inequality in the contemporary United States. Our discussions draw on works in anthropoloty, sociology, economics, history, cultural studies, and investigative journalism to examine how economic policies, exacerbated by the Great Recession, impact Americans divided by identity categories such as race, class, gender, and citizenship. We focus on ways in which the social dynamics that produce inequality are embedded in worlds of cultural meaning and institutionalized as taken-for-granted aspects of everyday life. Structural disparities in income, wealth, and opportunity ultimately raise questions about the kind of society we live in an whether the nation's democratic ideals can survive the extreme polarization of life changes that exist in America today.
Anthropology^Sex and Evolution Sex and Evolution Introduction to evolutionary theory and its application to understanding human sexuality and sex differences.
Anthropology^Genes, Evolution and Behavior Genes, Evolution and Behavior This course explores how genes influence our traits and how our traits evolve, with special emphasis on behavior.
Anthropology^Anthropology and Art/ifacts Anthropology and Art/ifacts This coure examines anthropological approaches to the study of art works, their production, and function in diverse human societies, both past and present.
Anthropology^The Ancient Maya The Ancient Maya The Maya and their neighbors: Origin and Evolution of Classic Maya civilization.
Anthropology^Archaeology of Domesticated Animals Archaeology of Domesticated Animals Biological, ecological and cultural history of animal domestication.
Anthropology^European Prehistory European Prehistory The prehistory of European societies from the Upper Palaeolithic to the Iron Age.
Anthropology^Peoples and Cultures of Highland New Guinea Peoples and Cultures of Highland New Guinea History, ecology, social, economic, religious, and political systems of the aboriginal peoples and cultures of highland New Guinea.
Anthropology^Building the Human Animal Building the Human Animal An exploration of how the same genetic and developmental properites that shape animal evolution produced the unique human form.
Anthropology^Parasites and Human Evolution Parasites and Human Evolution Advance our understanding of human evolution by studying the ecologies and evolutionary histories of our parasites.
Anthropology^Culture Contact Culture Contact Survey of changes in indigenous societies following contact with colonial powers.
Anthropology^Race and Gender in the Americas: Latin American and Caribbean Cultures Race and Gender in the Americas: Latin American and Caribbean Cultures Utilizing a theoretical framework of intersectionability, this course examines historical and cultural constructions of race and gender in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Anthropology^Intellectual Background of Archaeology Intellectual Background of Archaeology Introduction to primary sources on the development of archaeology as a scientific discipline.
Anthropology^Anthropology Museum Studies Anthropology Museum Studies Introduction to the history, significance, and operation of anthropology museums.
Anthropology^Human Evolution: The Material Evidence Human Evolution: The Material Evidence Human origins as seen in the fossil record and comparative biology of humans and their primate relatives.
Anthropology^Evolution of Human Walking Evolution of Human Walking An in depth analysis of the biology, biomechanics, evolutionary history of human walking and running.
Anthropology^Evolution of Human Walking Evolution of Human Walking An in depth analysis of the biology, biomechanics, evolutionary history of human walking and running.
Anthropology^Primatology Primatology Nonhuman primate origins, evolution, comparative physical and behavioral characteristics, ecological context, phylogeny and taxonomy; and their importance in anthropology.
Anthropology^Anthropological Demography Anthropological Demography Analysis of demographic studies in traditional and very small populations.
Anthropology^Osteology Osteology Introduction to the systematic study of the human skeleton from an evolutionary developmental biological perspective.
Anthropology^Skeletal Forensic Anthropology Skeletal Forensic Anthropology An introduction to anthropological forensic science with an emphasis on what can be learned from human skeletons and archaeological recovery methods.
Anthropology^Settlement Demography Settlement Demography Examination of the demography and ecology of human settlement systems in the preindustrial past.
Anthropology^Molecular Forensic Anthropology Molecular Forensic Anthropology An introduction to the field of the application of DNA methods to estimating forensically useful phenotypes.
Anthropology^The Evolution of Human Mating The Evolution of Human Mating The Evolution of Human Mating is a science course designed to familiarize students with the primary literature on the evolution and development of human mating behavior and sex differences.
Anthropology^Archaeology of the Near East Archaeology of the Near East Culture of the Near East and India from Paleolithic times through the Bronze Age.
Anthropology^Intro to Geospatial Science in Anthropology and Archaeology Intro to Geospatial Science in Anthropology and Archaeology This course is a practical, data driven, introduction to applications of Geospatial tools in anthropological and archaeological research.
Anthropology^Meso-American Archaeology and Ethnography Meso-American Archaeology and Ethnography Survey of ethnohistorical and ethnographic patterns of Meso-American society; origin and development of ancient civilization in Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras.
Anthropology^The Evolution of American Indian Culture The Evolution of American Indian Culture Historic and archaeological sources used to trace American Indian lifestyles from the first immigrants to the period of Euro-American contact.
Anthropology^Andean Ethnology and Archaeology Andean Ethnology and Archaeology Cultures of the Andes from earliest settlements to Inka Empire; includes discussion of life in modern Andean communities.
Anthropology^Zooarchaeology Zooarchaeology Introduction to the systematic study of animal skeletal remains from archaeological sites.
Anthropology^Archaeological Laboratory Analysis Archaeological Laboratory Analysis Scientific laboratory methods used in the analysis of ceramic and lithic artifacts.
Anthropology^Forensic Archaeology Forensic Archaeology Application of archaeological techniques to crime scene investigations, with practical experience in field and laboratory contexts.
Anthropology^Archaeological Methods and Theory Archaeological Methods and Theory Scientific methods as applied to archaeological data: evolution, ecology, diffusion, and cyclicism theory.
Anthropology^Paleoethnobotany Paleoethnobotany Introductory course in paleoethnobotany, the study of the interrelationships between people of the past, natural environment, and plant resources.
Anthropology^The Aztecs The Aztecs This course examines the development and organization of the great Aztec culture of highland Mexico.
Anthropology^Advanced Geospatial Science for Anthropologists and Archaeologists Advanced Geospatial Science for Anthropologists and Archaeologists This course is an intensive, data driven, treatment of the use of geographic information systems in anthropological and archaeological research.
Anthropology^Environmental Archaeology Environmental Archaeology Introductory course in Environmental Archaeology, with empahsis on method and theory in the subfields archaeobotany, pedoarchaeology, and zooarchaeology.
Anthropology^Archaeological Ethics and Law Archaeological Ethics and Law Introductory course that examines prominent ethical and legal issues in archaeology integral to modern applied research and practice.
Anthropology^Ancient Economy Ancient Economy The course examines the comparative organization and development of ancient economies in both the Old and New Worlds.
Anthropology^South American Tribal Societies South American Tribal Societies Ethnographic survey of tribal societies in South America. Special emphasis on non-Andean area.
Anthropology^From Stone Ax to Uzi: Tradition and Change in the New Guinea Highlands From Stone Ax to Uzi: Tradition and Change in the New Guinea Highlands This course explores cultural change and innovation among tribal peoples of Highland New Guinea from stone tool technology to globalization.
Anthropology^Primitive Warfare Primitive Warfare Critical overview of the ethnography and theory of primitive warfare.
Anthropology^Mating and Marriage Mating and Marriage An examination of human mating mainly from the viewpoint of behavioral ecology, centering on the species-typical institution of marriage.
Anthropology^Ethnography of the United States Ethnography of the United States Ethnographic descriptions of various dimensions of life in the United States.
Anthropology^Economic Anthropology Economic Anthropology Different approaches to the study of the economics of non-Western societies, emphasizing the interrelationships between noneconomic factors and economic behavior.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Religion Anthropology of Religion Traditional and modern religions and historical and contemporary religious movements from an anthropological perspective.
Anthropology^Global Processes and Local Systems Global Processes and Local Systems Ethnographic, comparative, historic, evolutionary treatment of global economic, political, and cultural processes and their consequences for local systems.
Anthropology^Cultural Ecology Cultural Ecology Survey of the methods and concepts of cultural ecology, focusing on the interaction between cultural and geographical systems.
Anthropology^Jewish Communities: Identity, Survival, and Transformation in Unexpected   Places Jewish Communities: Identity, Survival, and Transformation in Unexpected   Places Examines the global array of smaller Jewish communities that have flourished outside the main urban centers of Jewish settlement.
Anthropology^Ethnographic Field Methods Ethnographic Field Methods Course introduces students to ethnographic field methods, includes student projects and simple analyses that don't require statistical sophistication.
Anthropology^Applied Anthropology Applied Anthropology A survey of the development of applied anthropology and the current issues facing anthropologists working in non-academic settings.
Anthropology^Human Genetics Human Genetics The human genome, its variation, origins, and relation to disease and other traits.
Anthropology^Human Genetics Human Genetics The human genome, its variation, origins, and relation to disease and other traits.
Anthropology^Human Genetics Human Genetics Gene mapping in humans; molecular basis of genetic disease; genomic structure; immunogenetics; and genetic evidence for human evolutionary history.
Anthropology^Molecular Anthropology Molecular Anthropology Provides framework to understand current issues in biology, genetics, and anthropology as they relate to the evolution of our species.
Anthropology^Fifteen Great Biology Papers Fifteen Great Biology Papers Reading and discussion of the most influential papers in the history of biology that illustrate exceptional insight and elegant reasoning.
Anthropology^The Skull The Skull Survey of the mammalian skull from many perspectives including evolution, development, anatomy, function, and variability of the skull.
Anthropology^Evolution and Development of Human Origins Evolution and Development of Human Origins In depth analysis of the genetic and developmental basis for phenotypic variation and evolution of humans and primates.
Anthropology^Our Place in Nature Our Place in Nature An evolutionary and genetic consideration of our understanding of human beings as a part of the natural world.
Anthropology^Biology, Evolution, and Society Biology, Evolution, and Society Exploration of the genetic theory of evolution and development, its history and application within Biology and beyond.
Anthropology^The Ecology of Traditional Farming The Ecology of Traditional Farming This course will examine the ecology of traditional farming, focusing on the farming household, its farm, and its subsistence needs.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Gender Anthropology of Gender Cross-cultural construction of gender and sex roles; theories of gender construction; case studies and practical effects.
Anthropology^Language, Culture, and Society Language, Culture, and Society Relationships among language, culture and society, with an anthropological emphasis.
Anthropology^Cannibalism Cannibalism Explores the cultural institution of cannibalism, uses of the "cannibal" label, and cannibalism's meaning among those who practiced it.
Anthropology^Intermediate Field Methods Intermediate Field Methods On-site experience in collecting archaeological, behavioral, or biological data.
Anthropology^Field Techniques Field Techniques Training in techniques involving analyses of archaeological, behavioral, or biological data.
Anthropology^Peoples of South Asia Peoples of South Asia The course will cover nation states of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Maldives. This course looks at the diverse peoples of South Asia and their dynmaic cultures. In Nepal along, over hundred langauges ares spoken and over fifty indigenous groups are officially recognized. Hindi and Bengali are the most common languages spoken in the region followed by Talegu and Panjabi. Major world relgions such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam and Christianity are practiced in South Asia. Muslim population of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Maldives and Pakistan make the largest population of Muslims in the world. This course will explore contemporary cultural, political and economic issues that affect peoples of South Asia. This course begins by looking at the origins of religions pluralities in South Asia and discussions of how it influences South Asia today.
Food Studies^FD FD No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Outdoor Pursuits Introduction to Outdoor Pursuits The following courses are designed for the major in Kinesiology and related disciplines as designated in the various curricular programs. They are pedagogically oriented and do not fulfill the Health Sciences and Physical Education  component of General Education.   Introduction to selected outdoor pursuit activities, such as, but not limited to, rock climbing, cross country skiing, backpacking, hiking, orienteering.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Outdoor Pursuits Introduction to Outdoor Pursuits Introduction to selected outdoor pursuit activities, such as, but not limited to, rock climbing, cross country skiing, backpacking, hiking, orienteering.
Sports and Recreation^Drugs in Sports Drugs in Sports Nature of drug use, misuse, and abuse in the athletic setting with implications for counseling and controls.
Sports and Recreation^Principles of Fly Tying and Fly Fishing for Trout Principles of Fly Tying and Fly Fishing for Trout A course designed to enhance student's knowledge, skill, and performance in fly tying and the sport of fly fishing for trout.
Sports and Recreation^Cycling Cycling A course designed to give students an understanding of and the ability to establish an exercise program involving riding.
Sports and Recreation^Indoor Rock Climbing Indoor Rock Climbing A course designed to provide students with the basic skills, safety, and knowledge of rock climbing.
Sports and Recreation^Lead Rock Climbing Lead Rock Climbing A course designed to provide students with skills, safety, and knowledge of lead rock climbing in a top rope environment.
Sports and Recreation^Basic Downhill Skiing Basic Downhill Skiing Students will gain a comprehensive understanding and basic level of proficiency in Downhill Skiing.
Sports and Recreation^Intermediate Downhill Skiing Intermediate Downhill Skiing Students will gain a comprehensive understanding and intermediate to advanced level of proficiency in Downhill Skiing.
Sports and Recreation^Snowboarding Snowboarding Students will gain a comprehensive understanding and basic level of proficiency in Snowboarding.
Sports and Recreation^First Aid, Personal Safety, and CPR First Aid, Personal Safety, and CPR A course designed to provide students with the opportunity for Red Cross certification in Community First Aid, Safety, and CPR.
Sports and Recreation^Lifestyles for Health Lifestyles for Health Concepts of health, life-style, and risk factors; development and implementation of personal action plans.
Sports and Recreation^Ballroom Dance Ballroom Dance A course designed to provide students with basic dance skills and an understanding and appreciation of ballroom dance.
Sports and Recreation^Ballroom Dance Ballroom Dance A course designed to provide students with basic dance skills and an understanding and appreciation of ballroom dance.
Sports and Recreation^Modern Dance Modern Dance A course designed to teach the basic skills of modern dance and to develop a further appreciation of modern dance.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Lifetime Sports Introduction to Lifetime Sports Students participate in lifetime sports such as archery, bowling, golf, and at least one racquet and/or winter sport.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Court Sports Introduction to Court Sports A course designed to introduce students to various court sports such as tennis, racquetball, handball, squash, and/or badminton.
Sports and Recreation^Archery/Indoor & Outdoor Archery/Indoor & Outdoor Course designed to introduce students to Archery/Bowhunting.
Sports and Recreation^Badminton 1 Badminton 1 The course promotes health, fitness, and enjoyment of the game of badminton.
Sports and Recreation^Fencing I Fencing I Kinesiology 028 is designed to give students knowledge of the rules, strategies and skills of the sport of Fencing.
Sports and Recreation^Golf I Golf I A course designed to give students an understanding of and a proficiency in golf skills, rules, and etiquette.
Sports and Recreation^Golf II Golf II A course designed to provide a further understanding of and a more advanced proficiency in golf skills, rules and etiquette.
Sports and Recreation^Handball Handball A course designed to introduce students to a basic instructional course in the fundamentals of 4-wall handball.
Sports and Recreation^Ice Skating--Beginning Ice Skating--Beginning A course of instruction focused on the physical development and knowledge of basic ice skating skills.
Sports and Recreation^Ice Skating--Advanced Beginning Ice Skating--Advanced Beginning A course of instruction focused on the physical development and knowledge of basic ice skating skills.
Sports and Recreation^Ice Skating--Intermediate/Advanced Ice Skating--Intermediate/Advanced A course of instruction in basic figure skating: field moves, freestyle, choreography, pairs skating, and ice dance.
Sports and Recreation^Power Skating Power Skating A course of instruction in basic power skating specifically designed for ice hockey, applicable to other ice sports.
Sports and Recreation^Racquetball I Racquetball I The course promotes health, fitness, and enjoyment of the game of racquetball.
Sports and Recreation^NAUI Basic Scuba NAUI Basic Scuba A course to introduce students to the fundamentals of Scuba diving.
Sports and Recreation^Squash I Squash I A course designed to give students an appreciation of and proficiency in the skills, rules, and regulations of squash.
Sports and Recreation^Beginning Swimming Beginning Swimming A course designed to give students skills and knowledge necessary to be safe in shallow and deep water.
Sports and Recreation^Advanced Beginner Swimming Advanced Beginner Swimming A course designed to give students skills and knowledge necessary to be safe in shallow and deep water.
Sports and Recreation^Intermediate Swimming Intermediate Swimming A course designed to teach students a variety of swimming strokes and increase their knowledge of fitness using aquatic activities.
Sports and Recreation^Tennis I Tennis I A course designed to give students an appreciation of and proficiency in the skills, rules, and regulations of tennis.
Sports and Recreation^Tennis II Tennis II A course designed to give students an appreciation of and proficiency in the skills, rules, and regulations of tennis.
Sports and Recreation^Aikido Aikido Students will gain a comprehensive understanding and basic level of proficiency in the Japanese Traditional martial art of Aikido.
Sports and Recreation^Dance Forms Dance Forms Baskic skills and methods of teaching and assessing creative movement and folk, square, social, and modern dance.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Martial Arts Introduction to Martial Arts A course designed to give students an introduction to martial arts, and the use of martial arts for lifelong fitness.
Sports and Recreation^Personal Defense Personal Defense A course designed to give students an understanding of and a proficiency in martial arts and self-defense.
Sports and Recreation^Judo I Judo I Kinesiology 058 will help students develop stamina, confidence and discipline, and promote general fitness through the introduction to basic Judo.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Karate Introduction to Karate A course designed to give students an understanding of and a proficiency in Karate.
Sports and Recreation^Principles and Practices of Healthful Living Principles and Practices of Healthful Living Facts and principles as related and applied to the science of living serve as a basis for health instruction and student guidance.
Sports and Recreation^Fitness Theory and Practice Fitness Theory and Practice Students will learn about the science of fitness/wellness; evaluate their present fitness levels and create a personal fitness plan.
Sports and Recreation^Fitness Theory and Practice Fitness Theory and Practice Students will learn about the science of fitness/wellness; evaluate their present fitness levels and create a personal fitness plan.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Cardiovascular Activities Introduction to Cardiovascular Activities A course designed to give students an introduction to various types of cardiovascular training.
Sports and Recreation^Aerobic Dance Aerobic Dance A course designed to involve students in daily aerobic activity while teaching the fundamentals of overall health and well-being.
Sports and Recreation^Jogging Jogging A course designed to give students an understanding of and the ability to establish an exercise program involving jogging.
Sports and Recreation^Physical Conditioning Physical Conditioning A course designed to give students an experience with an understanding of vigorous physical training.
Sports and Recreation^Strength Training Strength Training Designed to improve students' muscular strength/endurance, teaches students how to develop an effective personal strength/endurance training program for lifelong fitness.
Sports and Recreation^Swim Conditioning Swim Conditioning A course designed to provide students an understanding of and proficiency in swimming conditioning.
Sports and Recreation^Fitness Walking Fitness Walking A course designed to give students an understanding of and a proficiency in fitness walking.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Tai Chi Ch'uan Introduction to Tai Chi Ch'uan A course designed to introduce students to Tai Chi Ch'uan, a traditional Chinese system of personal cultivation and self-defense.
Sports and Recreation^Yoga 1 Yoga 1 A course designed to give students an understanding of and proficiency in yoga.
Sports and Recreation^Advanced Yoga Advanced Yoga A course designed to expand on a student's fundamental understanding of and proficiency in yoga.
Sports and Recreation^Wellness Theory Wellness Theory Focused on preparing and engaging students in the attitudes and behaviors that enhance quality of life and maximize personal potential.
Sports and Recreation^Action Methods for Stress Management Action Methods for Stress Management Achieving wellness by studying the effects of stressors on systems of the body and effectiveness of activity to relieve stress.
Sports and Recreation^Exercise for Stress Management Exercise for Stress Management A course designed to identify the factors that contribute to student stress and develop strategies that will manage these factors. Students who receive credit for KINES 083 will not receive credit for KINES 082.
Sports and Recreation^Fitness for Life Fitness for Life A course designed to give students an understanding of the fundamental principles of physical fitness. Students who receive credit for KINES 084 shall not receive credit for either KINES 061 or 081.
Sports and Recreation^Varsity Sport Experience Varsity Sport Experience A course designed to promote an active and healthful lifestyle through participation in a varsity sport sanctioned by Penn State.
Sports and Recreation^Student Wilderness Experience Student Wilderness Experience Incoming student wilderness experience. Backpacking and one additional adventure: rock climbing, high ropes course/canoeing. One-day of community service.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor A course designed to introduce students to indoor team sports.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor - Volleyball Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor - Volleyball A course designed to introduce students to the team sport of volleyball.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor - Basketball Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor - Basketball A course designed to introduce students to the team sport of basketball.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor - Team Handball Introduction to Team Sports/Indoor - Team Handball A course designed to introduce students to the sport of team handball.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Outdoor - Soccer Introduction to Team Sports/Outdoor - Soccer A course designed to introduce students to the outdoor team sport of Soccer.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Outdoor - Rugby Introduction to Team Sports/Outdoor - Rugby A course designed to introduce students to the outdoor team sport of Rugby.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Team Sports/Outdoor-Ultimate Frisbee Introduction to Team Sports/Outdoor-Ultimate Frisbee A course designed to introduce students to the outdoor team sport of Ultimate Frisbee.
Sports and Recreation^Masters Activity (Sport) Masters Activity (Sport) A course that introduces students to movement subcultures by providing the knowledge, habits, and skills for activity across the lifespan.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study in Physical Activity Independent Study in Physical Activity This course is designed to meet the needs of students to expand Kinesiology experiences beyond the designed course curriculum.
Sports and Recreation^Certified Lifeguard Certified Lifeguard Certified Lifeguard American Red Cross certification for lifeguarding with CPR/AED/First Aid; must be able to swim 300 yeards continuously. Class size, frequency of offering, and evaluation methods will vary by location and instructor. For these details check the specific course syllabus.
Sports and Recreation^The Health Program for the Elementary School Child The Health Program for the Elementary School Child Introduction to the Coordinated School Health Program. Overview of contemporary school-based health education theory, content, methods, and practice.
Sports and Recreation^The Physical Education Program for the Elementary School Child The Physical Education Program for the Elementary School Child Theoretical and practical overview of developmentally appropriate physical education for children.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Athletic Training Introduction to Athletic Training Foundation of injury recognition and prevention; ethical, legal, and professional issues for the athletic trainer. A laboratory based course.
Sports and Recreation^The Socio-Cultural Dynamics of Kinesiology The Socio-Cultural Dynamics of Kinesiology Evolution of cultural values in physical activity from antiquity to the present.
Sports and Recreation^Health Education Concepts Health Education Concepts Principles of healthy living which are the basis for health instruction in schools and health care settings.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Kinesiology Introduction to Kinesiology The foundation course of the Kinesiology degree, providing an interdisciplinary approach to the study of movement through problem based learning.
Sports and Recreation^Biophysical Basis of Kinesiology Biophysical Basis of Kinesiology Kinesiology 197A is intended for entry-level students  with an interest in human movement and physical activity. It provides a rigorous introduction to the biophysical foundations of kinesiology including applications of basic science to professional and clinical settings. Students will become familiar with the field of kinesiology, and discuss how this undergraduate major can serve as preparation for wide range of professional pursuits, including post-graduate occupations, professional programs of study in medicine and allied health fields, and as a basis for biomedical research careers. The course focuses on the biological, physiological, and psychological foundations of human movement, movement disorders, and sport- related performance. It serves as an entry-level complement to KINES 141, which introduces students to the historical and philosophical foundations of kinesiology.
Sports and Recreation^Biophysical Basis of Kinesiology Biophysical Basis of Kinesiology KINES 197A is intended for entry-level students  with an interest in human movement and physical activity. It provides a rigorous introduction to the biophysical foundations of kinesiology including applications of basic science to professional and clinical settings. Students will become familiar with the field of kinesiology, and discuss how this undergraduate major can serve as preparation for a wide range of professional pursuits, including post-graduate occupations, professional programs of study in medicine and allied health fields, and as a basis for biomedical research careers. The course focuses on the biological, physiological, and psychological foundations of human movement, movement disorders, and sport- related performance. It serves as an entry-level complement to KINES 141, which introduces students to the historical and philiosophical foundations of kinesiology.
Sports and Recreation^Biophysical Basis of Kinesiology Biophysical Basis of Kinesiology Kinesiology 197A is intended for entry-level students  with an interest in human movement and physical activity. It provides a rigorous introduction to the biophysical foundations of kinesiology including applications of basic science to professional and clinical settings. Students will become familiar with the field of kinesiology, and discuss how this undergraduate major can serve as preparation for wide range of professional pursuits, including post-graduate occupations, professional programs of study in medicine and allied health fields, and as a basis for biomedical research careers. The course focuses on the biological, physiological, and psychological foundations of human movement, movement disorders, and sport- related performance. It serves as an entry-level complement to KINES 141, which introduces students to the historical and philosophical foundations of kinesiology.
Sports and Recreation^ROTC Lab ROTC Lab ROTC Lab accompanying ROTC lecture courses at Penn State Erie, The Behrend College.
Sports and Recreation^Muscle Training:  Physiology, Programs, Techniques Muscle Training:  Physiology, Programs, Techniques Physiological basis of strength training emphasizing mechanisms of muscle contraction and growth, program and facility design, and individual exercise technique.
Sports and Recreation^Cardiorespiratory Training for Health and Performance Cardiorespiratory Training for Health and Performance Exploration of the principles and practical applications of cardiorespiratory training for health and performance enhancement.
Sports and Recreation^Functional Human Anatomy Functional Human Anatomy In-depth examination of the, musculoskeletal, nervous, cardiovascular, and respiratory systems, and their relationship to human movement.
Sports and Recreation^Medical Terminology for Allied Health Professionals Medical Terminology for Allied Health Professionals Comprehensive review of terms related to functions, disorders, diagnosis, and treatment of body systems related to physical activity and movement.
Sports and Recreation^Inner Sports: Strategies for Maximizing Performance Inner Sports: Strategies for Maximizing Performance Theory and research in competitive anxiety. Identification of athletic goals with training in cognitive skills and strategies to maximize performance.
Sports and Recreation^Athletic Training Clinical Practice I Athletic Training Clinical Practice I Preparation in basic psychomotor skills required in the clinical practice of athletic training. This is a laboratory fee based course.
Sports and Recreation^Athletic Training Clinical Practice II Athletic Training Clinical Practice II Preparation in advanced psychomotor skills required in the clinical practice of athletic training. This is a laboratory fee based course.
Sports and Recreation^Emergency Care in Athletic Training Emergency Care in Athletic Training Introduction into emergency medical care with emphasis on management of common emergency situations occuring during athletic participation. This is a laboratory fee based course.
Sports and Recreation^Research Skills in Kinesiology Research Skills in Kinesiology Development of research skills employed in kinesiology, including experimental design, statistical testing and information technology, through experiential learning.
Sports and Recreation^Educational Gymnastics Educational Gymnastics This course provides an introduction to developmentally appropriate gymnastics for K-12 students.
Sports and Recreation^Educational Dance Educational Dance This course provides an introduction to a variety of dance forms typically taught as part of K-12 physical education curricula.
Sports and Recreation^Health-Related Physical Fitness Health-Related Physical Fitness Basic skills and methods of teaching, assessing, and prescribing health- related fitness and strength training activities.
Sports and Recreation^Adventure/Outdoor Recreational Activities Adventure/Outdoor Recreational Activities Introduction to adventure/outdoor recreational activities teaching and assessment strategies for K-12 and community groups.
Sports and Recreation^Technology Applications in Health and Physical Education Technology Applications in Health and Physical Education Integration of technology into health and physical education curriculum.
Sports and Recreation^Observation of Health and Physical Education in the Public Schools Observation of Health and Physical Education in the Public Schools Introduction to the career of teaching including guided observation of HPE in K-12 public schools.
Sports and Recreation^Careers/Observations in Kinesiology Careers/Observations in Kinesiology Introduction to career information and observational experiences in the Kinesiology field.
Sports and Recreation^Professional Development - Field Experience Professional Development - Field Experience Develops the necessary professional skills needed to maximize the benefits obtained from a professional conference.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Athletic Training Independent Study Athletic Training Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Athletic Training Independent Study Athletic Training Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Biomechanics Independent Study Biomechanics Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Biomechanics Independent Study Biomechanics Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Exercise Physiology Independent Study Exercise Physiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Exercise Physiology Independent Study Exercise Physiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study History & Philosophy Independent Study History & Philosophy Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study History & Philosophy Independent Study History & Philosophy Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Motor Control Independent Study Motor Control Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Motor Control Independent Study Motor Control Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Emergency Care - First Aid/Safety/AED Emergency Care - First Aid/Safety/AED Develop skills for First Responder Certification in CPR/AED, First Aid and Safety by American Red Cross or National Safety Council.
Sports and Recreation^First Aid:  Instructors First Aid:  Instructors Competencies leading to certification for teaching American Red Cross Advanced First Aid and Emergency Care and American Heart Association Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation. Laboratory.
Sports and Recreation^Psychology of Movement Behavior Psychology of Movement Behavior Basic concepts and application of psychological knowledge for organized sport, physical activity, and athletic training.
Sports and Recreation^Mechanisms and Evaluation of Lower Body Athletic Injuries Mechanisms and Evaluation of Lower Body Athletic Injuries Etiology of athletic injuries with scientific and practical rationales for evaluation of injuries to the lower extremity and lumbosacral spine.
Sports and Recreation^Mechanisms and Evaluation of Upper Body Athletic Injuries Mechanisms and Evaluation of Upper Body Athletic Injuries Etiology of athletic injuries with scientific and practical rationales for evaluation of injuries to upper extremity, neck, head, and trunk.
Sports and Recreation^Medical Aspects of Athletic Training Medical Aspects of Athletic Training Pathology, assessment, and treatment  of general medical conditions commonly seen in physically active populations.
Sports and Recreation^Meaning, Ethics, and Movement Meaning, Ethics, and Movement Development of philosophic reasoning skills to better understand the values of physical activity and ethics in a variety of performance settings.
Sports and Recreation^Exercise Physiology Exercise Physiology Structure and function of the human body as applied to health, wellness, exercise, and sports.
Sports and Recreation^Activity and Disease Activity and Disease Examination of hypokinetic disease on human wellness involving identification, assessment, research, and exercise design of human activity for disease prevention.
Sports and Recreation^Ergogenic Aids Ergogenic Aids Skills development including research identification and evaluation of work-enhancing methods and devices as related to human performance and wellness.
Sports and Recreation^The Neurobiology of Motor Control and Development The Neurobiology of Motor Control and Development The neurobiological foundations of human movement, with an emphasis on applications in rehabilitation and athletics.
Sports and Recreation^Teaching Individual Activities Teaching Individual Activities This course introduces teacher candidates to the spectrum of individual activities being taught in the K-12 school setting.
Sports and Recreation^Teaching Group Activities Teaching Group Activities This course introduces teacher candidates to the spectrum of group activities being taught in the K-12 school setting.
Sports and Recreation^The Process of Teaching Physical Education The Process of Teaching Physical Education Analysis of pedagogical skills and methods applied to K-12 physical education.
Sports and Recreation^Biomechanics Biomechanics Basic mechanical knowledge required to understand human movement.
Sports and Recreation^Leadership Practicum for Teachers Leadership Practicum for Teachers Supervised experiences in guiding individuals and in leading groups in the motor skill learning process.
Sports and Recreation^Leadership Practicum: KINES Leadership Practicum: KINES Supervised experience in leading/assisting in tasks associated with fitness testing/prescription in a variety of settings.
Sports and Recreation^Practicum in Athletic Training Practicum in Athletic Training Practical experience in the athletic training room and with selected sports activities under direct supervision of the medical staff.
Sports and Recreation^Practicum in Athletic Training Practicum in Athletic Training Practical experience in the athletic training room and with selected sports activities under direct supervision of the medical staff.
Sports and Recreation^Practicum in Athletic Training Practicum in Athletic Training Practical experience in the athletic training room and with selected sports activities under direct supervision of the medical staff.
Sports and Recreation^Special Topics Course Special Topics Course Forman courses given infrequently to explore, in depth, a comparatively narrow subject that may be topical or of special interest.
Sports and Recreation^Adapted Physical Education Adapted Physical Education Basic concepts of planning and conducting physical education programs for children with physical, sensory, and/or intellectual impairments.
Sports and Recreation^Emergency Medical Technology Emergency Medical Technology Theoretical and practical aspects of emergency medical techniques as applied in the pre-hospital environment.
Sports and Recreation^Emergency Medical Technology Instructor Emergency Medical Technology Instructor Educational concepts and skills necessary to present instruction in emergency care; lesson planning, methods of instruction, and evaluation techniques.
Sports and Recreation^Physical Growth and Motor Development Physical Growth and Motor Development Study of biologically programmed growth processes and environmental influences leading to attained adult form and biomechanical function.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Musculoskeletal Injury and Rehabilitation Introduction to Musculoskeletal Injury and Rehabilitation This course is designed to provide an overview of common musculoskeletal injuries and rehabilitation for pre-allied health and fitness professionals.
Sports and Recreation^Psychosocial Dimensions of Physical Activity Psychosocial Dimensions of Physical Activity Discussion of theoretical and empirical findings, structuring a frame of reference for exploring man's involvement in physical activity.
Sports and Recreation^Exercise Psychology Exercise Psychology Psychological antecedents and consequences of physical activity behaviors.
Sports and Recreation^Physical Activity Interventions Physical Activity Interventions Principles of designing, planning, and implementing theory- and evidence- based physical activity interventions.
Sports and Recreation^Psychology of Sports Injuries Psychology of Sports Injuries Psychological causes and consequences of sports related injuries in athletes.
Sports and Recreation^Women and Sport Women and Sport An interdisciplinary approach to contemporary issues related to women and sport from historical, physiological, psychological, and sociological perspectives.
Sports and Recreation^Physical Activity in Diverse Populations Physical Activity in Diverse Populations An examination of the social, cultural, political, and environmental influences on health and physical activity promotion among diverse populations.
Sports and Recreation^Physical Activity and Public Health Physical Activity and Public Health Examines the role of physical activity in public health. Includes population level strategies for promoting physical activity in communities.
Sports and Recreation^Developmental Sport & Exercise Psychology Developmental Sport & Exercise Psychology Developmental changes in the antecedents and consequences of physical activity across the lifespan.
Sports and Recreation^Motivation and Emotion in Movement Motivation and Emotion in Movement Theories of motivational and emotional processes and their applications in movement settings.
Sports and Recreation^Psychology of Sport Performance Psychology of Sport Performance Psychological theories of talent development and performance enhancement in sport.
Sports and Recreation^Rehabilitation of Injuries to the Lower Extremities Rehabilitation of Injuries to the Lower Extremities Theoretical foundation and laboratory experience in manual therapy techniques and therapeutic exercises for the lower extremities.
Sports and Recreation^Rehabilitation of Injuries to the Trunk and Upper Extremities Rehabilitation of Injuries to the Trunk and Upper Extremities Theoretical foundation and laboratory experience in manual therapy techniques and therapeutic exercises for the trunk and upper extremities.
Sports and Recreation^Therapeutic Modalities in Athletic Training Therapeutic Modalities in Athletic Training Lecture and laboratory course exploring physiological principles and clinical evidence to the use of therapeutic modalities in athletic training.
Sports and Recreation^Administration and Issues in Athletic Training Administration and Issues in Athletic Training Theoretical and practical aspects for management of an Athletic Training professional practice and identifying contemporary issues related to the profession.
Sports and Recreation^Ethics in Sport and Sport Management Ethics in Sport and Sport Management Analysis of moral dilemmas in sport and sport management utilizing the tools of ethics.
Sports and Recreation^Philosophy and Sport Philosophy and Sport An examination of human nature from the perspective of our participation in sport.
Sports and Recreation^History of Sport in American Society History of Sport in American Society Background, establishment, and growth of sport in America from colonial times to the present.
Sports and Recreation^Sport in Ancient Greece and Rome Sport in Ancient Greece and Rome An examination of the continuity of sport in ancient Greek and Roman societies.
Sports and Recreation^The Modern Olympic Games The Modern Olympic Games An analysis of the modern Olympic Games from their inception through the current festival.
Sports and Recreation^History of Athletics in Higher Education History of Athletics in Higher Education Origin and development of athletics in American higher education from colonial times to the present.
Sports and Recreation^Alcohol and Drug Education Alcohol and Drug Education Principles of integration and coordination of alcohol and drug education programs for health education and other health related professions.
Sports and Recreation^History of Sport in the Modern World History of Sport in the Modern World History of sport in modern world, ca. A.D. 1500 to present; concentrates on role of sport in societies outside United States.
Sports and Recreation^Representing Sport in Popular Film Representing Sport in Popular Film Critical, contextual, and theoretical analyses of sport films focusing on popular narratives of social inequalities.
Sports and Recreation^Coping with Life After Sport Coping with Life After Sport Psychosocial concerns affecting student-athletes as they enter the transition period following sport disengagement, focusing on coping interventions.
Sports and Recreation^Applied Cardiovascular Physiology Applied Cardiovascular Physiology In-depth study of cardiovascular regulation during postural, environmental, and exercise stress.
Sports and Recreation^Environmental Physiology Environmental Physiology This course examines physiological function of humans at rest and during prolonged or maximal exercise in conjunction with environment stress .
Sports and Recreation^Women's Health and Exercise Across the Lifespan Women's Health and Exercise Across the Lifespan In-depth study of the physiological role of exercise in modulating the health of girls and women during different phases of the lifespan.
Sports and Recreation^Physiological Basis of Exercise as Medicine Physiological Basis of Exercise as Medicine Reviews the physiological basis of exercise for enhancing health and protecting against chronic diseases.
Sports and Recreation^Physical Fitness Appraisal Physical Fitness Appraisal The basic components of physical fitness, how it can be measured, and how it can be developed.
Sports and Recreation^Exercise Prescription and Case Studies Exercise Prescription and Case Studies Principles of exercise prescription; application of fitness appraisal based on current practices using evaluation and discussion of case studies.
Sports and Recreation^Movement Disorders Movement Disorders Major peripheral and central movement disorders and methods of their treatment.
Sports and Recreation^Preparation for Research Project Preparation for Research Project Planning and preparation for research project.
Sports and Recreation^Acquisition of Motor Skills Acquisition of Motor Skills Examination of principles of motor learning; the application of strategic factors such as: practice types, schedules, augmented information, and motivation.
Sports and Recreation^Children's Physical Education Curriculum and Practicum Children's Physical Education Curriculum and Practicum Curriculum for elementary school physical education emphasizing the skill theme approach.
Sports and Recreation^Neurobiology of Sensorimotor Stroke Rehabilitation Neurobiology of Sensorimotor Stroke Rehabilitation This course is designed to expose students to the recent topics in motor stroke rehabilitation research through literature.
Sports and Recreation^Assessment and Evaluation in Physical Education and Health Education Assessment and Evaluation in Physical Education and Health Education Explores measurement as an important and distinct component in a variety of physical education and health education contexts.
Sports and Recreation^Health Instruction in the School--Content and Method Health Instruction in the School--Content and Method Methods, materials, and units of instruction.
Sports and Recreation^Curriculum Development in Health and Physical Education Curriculum Development in Health and Physical Education The content and process of K-12 school health and physical education curriculum development for public school students.
Sports and Recreation^Scientific Basis of Exercise for Older Adults Scientific Basis of Exercise for Older Adults Study of age-associated physical changes and the effects of exercise on the aging process.
Sports and Recreation^Motor Patterns of Children Motor Patterns of Children Development of motor patterns. Fundamentals of movement, basic motor skills, and adaptation of the body to external forces.
Sports and Recreation^Advanced Biomechanics Advanced Biomechanics The use of advanced biomechanics to provide an in-depth understanding of the principles which underpin human movement.
Sports and Recreation^Science of Training Athletes Science of Training Athletes Application of scientific data knowledge to analyze sport training.
Sports and Recreation^Legal Issues in Sport Legal Issues in Sport Contemporary legal issues in sport and their implications for sport managers.
Sports and Recreation^Mechanics of Locomotion Mechanics of Locomotion This course examines the forces and motions characteristic of locomotion, with emphasis on walking, the most common human activity.
Sports and Recreation^Programming for Business and Agencies Programming for Business and Agencies Fundamentals of program development applied to corporate and private physical fitness businesses.
Sports and Recreation^Principles and Ethics of Coaching Principles and Ethics of Coaching Integration of the practical and theoretical knowledge necessary for effective coaching through classroom and field experiences.
Sports and Recreation^Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Independent study directed by a faculty supervisor that culminates in the production of a thesis.
Sports and Recreation^Practicum in Student Teaching Practicum in Student Teaching Supervised teaching of health and physical education in K-12 public schools with seminars focused on transition from student to professional.
Sports and Recreation^Field and/or Research Practicum in Kinesiology Field and/or Research Practicum in Kinesiology Participation under supervision in a field or research practicum.
Sports and Recreation^Exercise Science Practicum Exercise Science Practicum Participation under supervision in a health and fitness setting.
Sports and Recreation^Expanded Field and/or Research Practicum in Kinesiology Expanded Field and/or Research Practicum in Kinesiology Additional participation under supervision in a field or research practicum.
Sports and Recreation^Advanced Professional Development in Kinesiology Advanced Professional Development in Kinesiology Professional development preparation focused on knowledge, skills and abilities to complete national certification; obtain internships, employment or graduate school admission.
Sports and Recreation^Field Practicum in Athletic Training Field Practicum in Athletic Training Participation under supervision in a field practicum.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Athletic Training Independent Study Athletic Training Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Athletic Training Independent Study Athletic Training Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Biomechanics Independent Study Biomechanics Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Biomechanics Independent Study Biomechanics Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Exercise Physiology Independent Study Exercise Physiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Exercise Physiology Independent Study Exercise Physiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study History & Philosophy Independent Study History & Philosophy Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study History & Philosophy Independent Study History & Philosophy Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Motor Control Independent Study Motor Control Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Motor Control Independent Study Motor Control Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Independent Study Psychology of Movement and Sport Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Independent Study Teaching/Coaching Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Kinesiology Honors Independent Study Kinesiology Honors Independent Study For non-thesis independent study/research by Schreyer Honors College scholars.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Independent Study Applied Kinesiology Creative projects, including research and design, that are supervised on an individual basis and that fall outside the scope of formal courses.
Sports and Recreation^Clinical Neuroanatomy Clinical Neuroanatomy The goal of this course is for students to obtain a working knowledge of the nervous system and neurological disorders. This course is most appropriate for students pursuing a career in medicine or the allied health professions.
Sports and Recreation^Nutrition, Exercise, and Sport Performance Nutrition, Exercise, and Sport Performance The course is designed to support critical thinking in exercise nutrition. This requires knowledge of fundamental principles of nutrition, exercise, and performance, as well as an understanding of the scientific methods that can be used to evaluate the benefits of harm of nutritional practices. These skills will enable students to independently acquire knowledge in the field of exercise nutrition, and to translate this knowledge into practice.
Sports and Recreation^Ergogenic Aids Ergogenic Aids Students will describe and evaluate the evidence base for agents and practices used to improve aerobic power, strength, body composition, metabolism and thermoregulation as they relate to exercise and physical activity.
Sports and Recreation^EMS Assistant Instructor EMS Assistant Instructor This course is designed to prepare students to assist in teaching practical sessions of an EMS course. Students should understand that experience is desirable when teaching EMS students. No amount of book knowledge can replace real life experience in the EMS setting.
Sports and Recreation^EMS Teaching Practicum EMS Teaching Practicum This course is intended to allow students the experience of a precepted teaching challenge in EMS training programs. The student will experience the rewards of planning, preparing, demonstrating and evaluating the knowledge, sk skills and aptitudes learned in the EMS Assistant Instructor or EMT Instructor Course. Upon completion the student should be able to teach any of the curriculum packages in which they are clinically competent.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction to Ambulance Operations Introduction to Ambulance Operations This course is designed to train volunteer members of the University Ambulance Service  in the policies, procedures, and protocols of UAS, EMS Department, Seven Mountains EMS Council, and the Centre County Emergency Communications Centre as they apply to the working EMT. The course is meant to act as a continuity of training specific to UAS and will require on-the-job training to supplement the course. Students are responsible for having a working knowledge of all UAS policies and procedures, and state EMS protocols, including those not expressly covered in class.
Sports and Recreation^Emergency Vehcile Operators Course Emergency Vehcile Operators Course Within the context of presenting a comprehensive emergency vehicle driver training program, this course is designed to present the necessary classroom, competency course training, and testing for new and existing emergency vehicle drivers. The program will verify proviciency in the knowledge and understanding of, as well as the practical applications to, emergency vehcile driving.
Sports and Recreation^EMS Field Practicum EMS Field Practicum This program is intended to provide the newly certified EMT or end of course EMT student an opportunity to apply and build upon their EMS systems knowledge to funcation effectively within local, out of hospital care systems. The student will function as an EMT in a controlled environment paired with a preceptor through all aspects of the nine phases of an EMS call.
Sports and Recreation^International Trauma Life Support International Trauma Life Support The primary purpose of the ITLS course is to provide students with the fundamental knowledge and experience necessary to get the trauma patient to the emergency department in the best possible condition.
Art^Introduction to the Visual Arts Introduction to the Visual Arts Introduction to the media, elements, function, making, and meaning of visual arts today and in diverse historical and cultural contexts.
Art^Interactive Learning and Web-Design Interactive Learning and Web-Design Introduce students to research on-line, preparing verbal, visual and other elements for presentation of outcomes and posting them to the Internet.
Art^Visual Images on the Web Visual Images on the Web Introduce students to using visual images for communication on the World Wide Web.
Art^Introduction to Visual Studies Introduction to Visual Studies Introduction to visual studies; pictorial space and the principles of visual organization.
Art^Introduction to Metal Arts Introduction to Metal Arts Introduction for non-art majors to fundamental jewelry making and small-scale metalsmithing processes including fabrication, surface treatment, and finishing of metalwork.
Art^Introduction to Drawing Introduction to Drawing Introductory experience in making of art through drawing media; designed for non-majors seeking general overview of studio practice.
Art^Introduction to Sculpture Introduction to Sculpture Introduction to sculpture for non-art majors consisting of lectures/basic studio work coordinated to cover broad range of processes.
Art^Introduction to Printmaking Introduction to Printmaking Instruction and practice in elementary printmaking and papermaking processes.
Art^Introduction to Painting Introduction to Painting Introductory experience in making of art through painting media; designed for non-majors seeking a general overview of studio practice.
Art^Introduction to Ceramics Introduction to Ceramics Introduction to the concepts and techniques fundamental to the making of pottery and ceramic sculpture.
Art^Concepts and Creation in the Visual Arts Concepts and Creation in the Visual Arts A study of the personal and cultural foundations of artistic creation and practice of creative production in the art studio.
Art^Introduction to Web Design Introduction to Web Design A beginning level course in Web Design, with emphasis on designing with standards to assure accessibility and effective communication.
Art^Beginning Computer Aided Design for Artists Beginning Computer Aided Design for Artists ART 102 explores the computer as artistic media. Student creations are realized through 3D printing, vinyl cutting, and laser engraving.
Art^Ideas as Visual Images Ideas as Visual Images Introduction to the ideational relationships among subject, form, and content in visual images.
Art^Ideas as Objects Ideas as Objects An introduction to the relationship between ideas and the creation of three-dimensional objects.
Art^Commentary on Art Commentary on Art An introduction to verbal commentary, both oral and written, about art. The development of critical and expressive skills given emphasis.
Art^Artistic Concepts of Space Artistic Concepts of Space A studio course that utilizes lecture and varied media experiences to investigate space as artistic expression.
Art^Artistic Concepts of Form Artistic Concepts of Form A studio course that utilizes lecture and varied media experiences to investigate form in artistic expression.
Art^The Digital Medium The Digital Medium A studio course where the computer is introduced as an artistic media.
Art^Foreign Studies--Art Foreign Studies--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Art^Intro to Digital Arts: Computer Graphics Intro to Digital Arts: Computer Graphics Art 201 is a course introducing digital art, design, and new media concepts using graphic applications on the computer.
Art^The Art of Web Design The Art of Web Design This course will focus on utilizing graphic formats ideal for web-based work and designing with web standards.
Art^Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism An introduction to the language, aesthetics and cultural impacts of digital art and design in contemporary society.
Art^Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism Introduction to Digital Art and Design Criticism An introduction to the language, aesthetics, and cultural impacts of digital art and design in contemporary society.
Art^Metal Art/Technology I Metal Art/Technology I Introduction to current and emerging metal art technologies and processes as medium for conceptual, aesthetic, and functional artworks.
Art^Figure Drawing Figure Drawing Drawing from life. Emphasis on developing the ability to comprehend and record the human figure.
Art^Drawing: Techniques, Materials, and Tools Drawing: Techniques, Materials, and Tools Drawing with an emphasis on organization and the development of drawing skills through a variety of techniques, materials, and tools.
Art^Beginning Sculpture Beginning Sculpture An introduction to sculpture consisting of lectures, demonstrations, and basic studio work coordinated to cover a broad range of processes.
Art^Beginning Printmaking Beginning Printmaking An introduction to printmaking consisting of lectures, demonstrations, and studio work to cover a broad range of processes.
Art^Beginning Oil Painting Beginning Oil Painting The materials and techniques of painting in oil and their uses in creative painting on panels and canvas.
Art^Artistic Concepts of Color Artistic Concepts of Color A studio course that utilizes lecture and various media to investigate color as artistic expression.
Art^Artistic Concepts of Light Artistic Concepts of Light A studio course that utilizes lecture and varied media experiences to investigate light as artistic expression.
Art^Methods and Materials I Methods and Materials I A studio course that focuses on specific media or techniques reflecting varied faculty expertise.
Art^Beginning Ceramics Beginning Ceramics The fundamentals of ceramics, throwing, hand-building, and glazing; acquainting the student with ceramic materials, techniques, and philosophy.
Art^Beginning Photography Beginning Photography Fundamental techniques and approaches to the art of photography utilizing digital photographic technologies; digital cameral required.
Art^Art Teaching Experience Art Teaching Experience This teaching assistant will aid in ART 168 during lab time. Students will be instructal support for the 3D animation and 2D design in each section.
Art^Introduction to Scripting Introduction to Scripting Students are introduced to object-oriented programming fundamentals for the production of expressive, interactive experiences such as animations, interfaces and games.
Art^Introduction to Scripting Introduction to Scripting Students are introduced to object oriented programming fundamentals for production of expressive, interactive experiences such as animations, interfaces and games.
Art^Water Media Water Media The purpose of this course is to develop skills in a variety of water media. In an experimental atmosphere, students are encouraged to develop their personal vision through the process of painting with aqueous materials such as water color, ink, acrylic, egg temera and natural pigments.
Art^Introduction to Artist Books Introduction to Artist Books This studio course provides students with hands-on activities to promote visual literacy and sensitivity to the fine art of bookmaking.
Art^Introduction to Artist Books Introduction to Artist Books This sutdio course provides students with hands-on activities to promote visual literacy and sensitivity to the fine art of bookmaking.
Art^Time, Objects and Space Time, Objects and Space This course will be an exploration of the crossroads where objects and time- based medias meet. Students will be building sculptural objects and combining them in interesting ways with video, sound, animation, performative elements and/or anything else they can think of. How do you embody sound? How do you bring video out of the screen and into our space?
Art^Paper in Particular Paper in Particular This introductory level course will cover papermaking and printmaking to be used with the idea of the multiple in student created artwork.
Art^Art in the Anthropocene Art in the Anthropocene This course will address questions of aesthetics and art practice in the current age, when humans are the primary force shaping the Earth.
Art^First Year Seminar School of Visual Arts First Year Seminar School of Visual Arts To facilitate transition of new students through active engagement and introduction to the School of Visual Arts, University and campus resources.
Art^Foreign Study--Art Foreign Study--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Art^Studio Apprenticeship Studio Apprenticeship Direct involvement in the creative process of the artist-teacher in the studio environment.
Art^Digital Portfolio Elements Digital Portfolio Elements The creation of more involved digital projects that may ultimately be included in the students' digital portfolio.
Art^Computer 3-D: Modeling, Rendering, and Animation Computer 3-D: Modeling, Rendering, and Animation A studio course introducing 3-d computer generated artwork and content creation using modeling, rendering, and animation applications on the computer.
Art^New Media Art: New Media Studio New Media Art: New Media Studio A studio course concentrating on digital art and new media authoring practices.
Art^Video Art and Time-Based Media Video Art and Time-Based Media A studio course concentrating on video art, new media, and experimental time based work.
Art^Metal Art/Technology II Metal Art/Technology II Further exploration of current and emerging metal art technologies and processes as medium for conceptual, aesthetic, and functional artworks.
Art^New Media Art: Game Art New Media Art: Game Art A studio course concentrating on game art and new media authoring practices.
Art^Physical Computing Physical Computing A studio course concentrating on interactive physical systems using software/sensors that can sense and respond to the analog world.
Art^Advanced Drawing Advanced Drawing Drawing for art majors; emphasis on sustained individual approaches based on figurative and nonfigurative sources.
Art^Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Fabrication and Mixed-media Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Fabrication and Mixed-media Development of technical and conceptual skills through metal fabrication, weld ing, and mixed-media processes.
Art^Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Casting and Mold-Making Intermediate Sculpture: Metal Casting and Mold-Making Development of technical and conceptual skills through metal casting and mold- making processes.
Art^The Body: Issues and Objects The Body: Issues and Objects Creating representations of the human body and related objects as a means of sculptural expression.
Art^Printmaking Printmaking Development of technical and expressive skills through selected problems in one or more of the print processes.
Art^Intermediate Printmaking:  Intaglio/Relief Intermediate Printmaking:  Intaglio/Relief Instruction and practice in the fundamentals of intaglio and relief printmaking processes in their relation to the fine arts.
Art^Intermediate Printmaking:  Lithography/Serigraphy Intermediate Printmaking:  Lithography/Serigraphy Instruction and practice in the fundamentals of the lithographic and serigraphic processes and their relationship to the meaning of the print.
Art^New Media Printmaking New Media Printmaking A studio course concentrating on the integration of new media and traditional printmaking processes.
Art^Intermediate Painting Intermediate Painting A variable offering in painting; course conditions defined on a rotating basis according to needs of individuals and groups.
Art^Themes and Issues I Themes and Issues I An advanced studio course that emphasizes individual approach to theme oriented problem solving through traditional and non-traditional multi-media explorations.
Art^Themes and Issues II Themes and Issues II An advanced studio course that emphasizes individual approach to theme oriented problem solving through traditional and non-traditional multi-media explorations.
Art^Intermediate Throwing Intermediate Throwing Intermediate ceramics course with focus on using wheel and throwing skills leading to personal expression in form, glazing, and firing.
Art^Intermediate Handbuilding Intermediate Handbuilding An intermediate ceramics course with a focus on handbuilding techniques, leading to personal expression in forming, glazing, and firing.
Art^Introduction to Photochemical Photography Introduction to Photochemical Photography Introduction to the fundamentals of black and white photochemical photography.
Art^Digital Hand Digital Hand An introduction to digital fabrication techniques and an exploration of their impact on the technical and conceptual process of sculpture.
Art^Found and Fabricated Found and Fabricated Expand your toolbox of sculptural skills by learning a variety of cold-joining techniques and other methods appropriate for working with found objects.
Art^Foreign Study--Art Foreign Study--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Art^Portfolio Design and Professional Practices Portfolio Design and Professional Practices This course emphasizes the development of presentation skills for digital artists in audience/client interactions.
Art^Museum Studies Museum Studies An introduction to the professional activities that occur in art museums.
Art^Seminar in Contemporary Art Seminar in Contemporary Art Trends in contemporary art investigated within the framework of studio visitations, museum tours, and through other related avenues of encounter.
Art^Performance Art Performance Art The development, production, and presentation of performance art works, and the study of performance art theory and history.
Art^Integrating Media: Convergence in Practice Integrating Media: Convergence in Practice A studio course concentrating on the integration of new media technologies in contemporary art practice.
Art^Advanced Web and Net Art: Multimedia Publishing Advanced Web and Net Art: Multimedia Publishing A studio course concentrating on multimedia online "net art" practice and Web publishing.
Art^Metal Art/Technology III Metal Art/Technology III Advanced exploration of current and emerging metal art technologies and proces ses as medium for conceptual, aesthetic, and functional artworks.
Art^Advanced New Media: Capstone Advanced New Media: Capstone A new media and digital arts capstone course concentrating on the integration of art and technology in advanced thesis projects.
Art^Drawing Drawing Drawing for advanced students, with total emphasis on sustained individual approaches.
Art^Advanced Figure Drawing Advanced Figure Drawing Concentrated work in recording and understanding the human figure.
Art^Advanced Sculpture Advanced Sculpture Advanced work in sculpture, with an emphasis on individual development.
Art^Installation Art Installation Art Study and production of original visual statements through installation work as an art form.
Art^Advanced Printmaking Advanced Printmaking Individual projects in one or more of the printmaking processes. Emphasis is on developing a portfolio of prints.
Art^Artists Books Artists Books Study and production of original visual statements through the book as an art form.
Art^Photo Based Printmaking Photo Based Printmaking Study and production of original visual statements through photographic based printmaking as an art form.
Art^Advanced Painting Advanced Painting Development of the artist through a series of commitments; each semester serves as a contractual agreement along professional lines.
Art^Advanced Painting Critique Advanced Painting Critique The painter in relation to his peers and his profession.
Art^Individual Approaches I Individual Approaches I An advance studio where students are expected to explore personal themes and individual concepts in their art work.
Art^Individual Approaches II Individual Approaches II An advance studio/lecture addressing the preparation for potential employment and/or entrance into graduate studies.
Art^The Intermediate Digital Medium The Intermediate Digital Medium An advanced studio course using the computer as an artistic media.
Art^Methods and Materials II Methods and Materials II A studio course that focuses on specific media or techniques reflecting varied faculty expertise.
Art^Contemporary Women Artists Contemporary Women Artists An interdisciplinary course that investigates women artists who were integral to the production of contemporary art primarily in the Americas, Europe, and Asia.
Art^History and Theory of Digital Art History and Theory of Digital Art History and theories of contemporary digital art emphasizing humanistic approaches to technology.
Art^Advanced Ceramic Arts Advanced Ceramic Arts Individual exploration of ceramic materials and construction leading to graduate study or career development as a professional potter.
Art^View Camera Photography View Camera Photography Experience with diverse camera formats and applications; particular emphasis on view camera.
Art^Research Projects Courses Research Projects Courses Supervised student activities on research projects identified on an individual or small-group basis.
Art^Ceramic Surface Decoration Ceramic Surface Decoration The history of decoration and ornamentation will be learned and explored as ceramic ornamentation using clay techniques.
Art^Multiples Multiples The concept of Multiples is explored via the processes of model making, mold making, slip casting and press molding.
Art^Compositing in 3D Compositing in 3D This course covers intermediate to advanced 3D compositing techniques like colore correction, render pass and post effects for 3D video.
Art^Ceramic Surface Decoration Ceramic Surface Decoration The history of decoration and ornamentation will be learned and explore as ceramic ornamentation using clay techniques.
Art^Found & Fabricated Found & Fabricated Expand your toolbox of sculptural skills by learning advanced cold-joining techniques and other methods appropriate for working with found objects.
Art^Pulp Fictions Pulp Fictions Repurpose, transform and innovate at an ambitious scale with materials drawn from the University's recycling program. Everyday detritus serves as a springboard for the creation of objects, installations, experiences and awareness.
Art^D.I.Y. Digital Fabrication D.I.Y. Digital Fabrication Participants in this course will work collaborativley to build and utilize robust digital fabrication tools from open source hardware plans. Laser cutting and 3D printing will be explored in depth.
Art^Flexible Molds: Parting Seams and Sculptural Concepts Flexible Molds: Parting Seams and Sculptural Concepts Multiple part, flexible mold and mother mold design skills are emphasized in this hands-on course. Experimental in concept relevant casting applications is encouraged.
Art^Re-Thinking Materials Re-Thinking Materials This course will explore materials painting from cave to today, using techniques such as casein, silver point, egg tempera, encaustic, pigment, animal glues and illuminated manuscripts.
Art^Constructing the Graphic Novel: Theory and Practice Constructing the Graphic Novel: Theory and Practice Exploring the grahic novel. The concept of story, sequential art and the graphic image will culminate in authorship of a graphic novel.
Art^Mobile & Touch Screen Devices Mobile & Touch Screen Devices Through lectures and hands on projects, students learn to develop, using the latest technologies, expressive applications targeting mobile and touch screen devices.
Art^Foreign Studies--Art Foreign Studies--Art Courses offered in foreign countries by individual or group instruction.
Architecture^A A No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Marketing^Introduction to Selling Techniques Introduction to Selling Techniques Principles underlying the sales process and practical application of these principles to selling situations. Studies role of selling in total marketing process.
Marketing^Contemporary American Marketing Contemporary American Marketing Social and economic aspects, movement of goods and services from producers to consumers; analysis of marketing functions, systems, and institutions. May not be used to satisfy Penn State Business baccalaureate degree requirements. Not available to students who have taken B A 303 or MKTG 301.
Marketing^Contemporary American Marketing Contemporary American Marketing Social and economic aspects; movement of goods and services from producers to consumers; analysis of marketing functions, systems, and institutions. May not be used to satisfy Penn State Business baccalaureate degree requirements. Not available to students who have taken B A 303 or MKTG 301.
Marketing^Principles of Marketing Principles of Marketing Focuses on customer behavior, product, channels of distribution, promotion, and pricing with emphasis on a culturally diverse environment. Not available to students who have taken B A 303.
Marketing^Principles of Marketing (Honors) Principles of Marketing (Honors) This course emphasizes fundamental marketing concepts  and the use of marketing research to inform managerial decision-making.
Marketing^Principles of Marketing Principles of Marketing Focuses on customer behavior, product, channels of distribution, promotion, and pricing with emphasis on a culturally diverse environment. Not available to students who have taken BA 303.
Marketing^Marketing Techniques for Electronic Commerce Marketing Techniques for Electronic Commerce Explores methods to implement/adapt marketing methods to the Internet; builds upon introductory marketing classes to examine what does/doesn't work.
Marketing^Public Relations and Marketing Public Relations and Marketing Examination of the role of public relations in a company's efforts to manufacture and market its products and services.
Marketing^Retailing Retailing Management of marketing institutions in distribution channels from producers to consumers. Emphasis on retail institutions: location, personnel, merchandising, control, promotion.
Marketing^Consumer Behavior Consumer Behavior Application of behavioral science concepts to the understanding of buyer behavior as a basis for marketing management decision making.
Marketing^Marketing Research Marketing Research Research approaches, methods, and applications studied as a formal approach to problem solving for marketing decisions.
Marketing^Buyer Behavior Buyer Behavior Application of behavioral science concepts to the understanding of buyer behavior as a basis for strategic decisions in marketing management.
Marketing^Personal Selling Personal Selling Principles underlying the selling process and practical application of these principles to selling situations.
Marketing^Direct Marketing Direct Marketing Applies principles of marketing management to the direct marketing of products by mail, telephone, print, and broadcast media.
Marketing^Advertising and Sales Promotion Management Advertising and Sales Promotion Management Perspectives and models of the key decisions involved in managing advertising and sales promotion campaigns.
Marketing^Business Marketing Business Marketing Developing marketing strategies and programs. The course emphasizes the special nature of the business and organizational markets.
Marketing^Advanced Sales Management Advanced Sales Management Approaches to planning, organizing, staffing, training, directing, and controlling the sales force in support of marketing objectives.
Marketing^Advanced Retailing and Merchandise Management Advanced Retailing and Merchandise Management Analyzing planning and controlling the retail merchandising effort, including procurement, resource selection, vendor relations, product presentation, inventory control.
Marketing^Services Marketing Services Marketing Marketing theory and methods applied to profit and nonprofit service industries such as health care, finance, transportation, tourism, arts and consulting.
Marketing^Sustainability in Marketing Strategy Sustainability in Marketing Strategy This course examines sustainability in marketing strategy, including real- world applications, green solutions, and using marketing principles to solve social issues.
Marketing^Sports Marketing Sports Marketing This course will focus on how companies develop, execute and measure marketing strategies and tactics to use sports teams, familities, leagues and other organizations to market their products and services domestically and internationally to consumers and business partners. The course will examine the marketing strategies employed by sports teams and leagues.
Marketing^Global Marketing Global Marketing Role of international marketing in the global environment; political, economic, geographic, historical, cultural conditions; developing and implementing international marketing strategies.
Marketing^Marketing Strategy Marketing Strategy Market-oriented problems of the firm; identification and selection of market opportunities; formulation of competitive strategies; marketing policies and programs.
Marketing^Innovation and Product Management Innovation and Product Management This course is an application-oriented interdisciplinary course on new product development concepts, and innovation management.
Marketing^Sales Management Sales Management Application of modern management principles to field sales force planning, organization, and administration; selection, training, and compensation plans.
Marketing^Services Marketing Management Services Marketing Management Conceptual understanding of services and the analytical tools that are used in solving strategic services marketing problems.
Marketing^Intermediate Social Media Marketing Intermediate Social Media Marketing Social Media Marketing tools, techniques, and strategies to build brands and customers.
Marketing^Business-to-Business Marketing Business-to-Business Marketing Application of marketing principles to commercial enterprises, industrial firms, government, and other non-profit institutions.
Marketing^Market Potential Analysis for Yamaha Market Potential Analysis for Yamaha This course will investigate and explore a potential market for Yamaha. In this invesigation, GE/McKinney.
Marketing^Sports Marketing Models & Analytics Sports Marketing Models & Analytics This course offers instruction on the current application of quantitative models in the growing field of research and analytics in Sports Marketing. Students are introduced to the world of Sports Marketing analytics through real world applications with actual data, modeling on the computer, interactions with guest speakers from this area, lectures, and class readings. Objectives for students include: problem formulation, data collection and properties, model development, computer implementation, estimation, interpretation, and developing critical thinking skills necessary to assist managerial decision making to improve the performance of the Sports Marketing effort. We will make extensive use of class discussion, computer illustration, group activities, exercises, guest speakers, sports analytics conference videos, and cases.
Marketing^Exploring Greek Food Systems & Marketing in Thessaloniki, Greece: Travel Exploring Greek Food Systems & Marketing in Thessaloniki, Greece: Travel During a 10-day embedded study abroad experience, students will visit local food producers, processors, and retailers to explore the Greek food system and food marketing in Thessaloniki, Greece and its connections to the US markets. In addition, the course will investigate the impact of culture, economy, and policy on the marketing strategies used by these companies.
Marketing^Exploring Greek Food Systems & Marketing: Lecture Exploring Greek Food Systems & Marketing: Lecture This course will use a multidisciplinary approach to discuss current and historical agricultural and business practices of the United States and Greece. Topics introduced will include environmental systems management, food science and technology, international business and marketing, and entrepreneurship as they pertain to both the United States and Greece. In addition, the influence and role of culture as it relates to the food system, food marketing, and food policy will be addressed. A 10-day embedded study abroad experience to Thessaloniki, Greece from May 11-21 is being offered in conjunction with this course.
Bio Engineering^B B No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Civil Engineering^C C No courses for department code were found. It's possible that the code has changed, there aren't any listed courses, or that the URL you're using has become mangled.
Math^Developmental Mathematics Developmental Mathematics Arithmetic operations, ratios, proportions, percents; measurement; polynomial and rational expressions; exponents, radicals; equations, inequalities, systems of equations; graphing; applications. Students who have passed MATH 003 may not schedule this course for credit. This course may not be used to satisfy the basic minimum requirements for graduation in any baccalaureate degree program.
Math^Elementary Geometry With Problem Solving Elementary Geometry With Problem Solving Geometric congruence, similarity, area, surface area, volume, introductory trigonometry; emphasis on logical reasoning skills and the solution of applied problems. This course may not be used to satisfy the basic minimum requirements for graduation in any baccalaureate degree program.
Math^Basic Skills Basic Skills Natural numbers; integers; rational numbers; decimals; ratio, proportion; percent; graphs; applications. Students who have passed MATH 001 may not schedule this course for credit. This course may not be used to satisfy the basic minimum requirements for graduation in any baccalaureate degree program.
Math^  MATH 004, 021 GQ, AND 022 GQ form a three-semester sequence in intermediate algebra, college algebra, and analytic geometry. MATH 026 GQ is a one-semester course in plane trigonometry. Students are placed in the appropriate course depending on the results of the mathematics placement examination.
Math^Intermediate Algebra Intermediate Algebra Algebraic expressions; linear, absolute value equations and inequalities; lines; systems of linear equations; integral exponents; polynomials; factoring. This course may not be used to satisfy the basic minimum requirements for graduation in any baccalaureate degree program.
Math^Preparation Skills for Success in Mathematics Preparation Skills for Success in Mathematics A foundation course that emphasizes study skills and reviews basic mathematical principles.
Math^Finite Mathematics Finite Mathematics Introduction to logic, sets, probability.
Math^Elementary Linear Algebra Elementary Linear Algebra Linear functions; systems of equations; matrices; linear programming.
Math^College Algebra I College Algebra I Quadratic equations; equations in quadratic form; word problems; graphing; algebraic fractions; negative and rational exponents; radicals.
Math^College Algebra II and Analytic Geometry College Algebra II and Analytic Geometry Relations, functions, graphs; polynomial, rational functions, graphs; word problems; nonlinear inequalities; inverse functions; exponential, logarithmic functions; conic sections; simultaneous equations.
Math^Plane Trigonometry Plane Trigonometry Trigonometric functions; solutions of triangles; trigonometric equations; identities.
Math^Problem Solving Problem Solving Concepts in problem solving; reducing new problems to old ones; techniques for attacking problems; building mathematical models.
Math^Mathematics for Sustainability Mathematics for Sustainability Mathematical analysis of sustainability; measurement, rates of change, risk and probability, networks; examples.
Math^The Mathematics of Money The Mathematics of Money Simple interest, simple discount, compound interest, annuities, investments, retirement plans, taxes, credit cards, and mortgages.
Math^General View of Mathematics General View of Mathematics Survey of mathematical thought in logic, geometry, combinatorics, and chance.
Math^Insights Into Mathematics Insights Into Mathematics Examples of mathematical applications in many areas including voting theory, fair division, apportionment, and Euler and Hamilton circuits.
Math^  MATH 040 GQ covers all the topics in MATH 004, 021 GQ, 022 GQ, and 026 GQ in one semester, MATH 041 GQ covers the same topics in trigonometry and analytic geometry as MATH 040 GQ. These courses are designed to prepare students for MATH 140 GQ. Students are placed in the appropriate course depending upon the results of the mathematics placement examinations.
Math^Algebra, Trigonometry, and Analytic Geometry Algebra, Trigonometry, and Analytic Geometry Concepts of algebra; equations; inequalities; functions; graphs; polynomial and rational functions; exponential and logarithmic functions; trigonometry; analytic geometry; complex numbers.
Math^Trigonometry and Analytic Geometry Trigonometry and Analytic Geometry Straight lines; circles; functions and graphs; graphs of polynomial and rational functions; exponential and logarithmic functions; trigonometry; conic sections.
Math^Technical Mathematics I Technical Mathematics I Algebraic expressions, equations, systems of equations, trigonometric functions, graphs, solution of triangles, vectors.
Math^Technical Mathematics II Technical Mathematics II Exponents, radicals, complex numbers, theory of equations, inequalities, half angle and double angle formulas, inverse trigonometric functions, exponential, logarithm, conic sections.
Math^Technical Calculus Technical Calculus Limits, derivatives of algebraic functions, implicit differentiation, related rates, applied extrema problems, curve sketching, integration, numerical integration, applications of integration, integration techniques, differential equations.
Math^Math Tutorial Math Tutorial Course designed to help students develop study skills and a strong foundation, in basic mathematics and to further their intellectual independence in MATH 021, 022, 026, 040, and 140.
Math^  MATH 110 GQ and MATH 140 GQ, 141 GQ are two sequences that discuss differential and intergral calculus. They differ in the areas where calculus is applied. The MATH 110 GQ, 111 GQ sequence includes applications from business: the engineering sciences. A student who wants to change from one sequence to another should consult with the chair of the mathematics department.
Math^Techniques of Calculus I Techniques of Calculus I Functions, graphs, derivatives, integrals, techniques of differentiation and integration, exponentials, improper integrals, applications. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 110, 140, 140A, and 140B.
Math^Techniques of Calculus II Techniques of Calculus II Analytic geometry, partial differentiation, maxima and minima, differential equations.
Math^Calculus With Analytic Geometry I Calculus With Analytic Geometry I Functions, limits; analytic geometry; derivatives, differentials, applications; integrals, applications. Students may only take one course for credit from MATH 110, 140, 140A, 140B, and 140H.
Math^Calculus, Analytic Geometry, Algebra, and Trigonometry Calculus, Analytic Geometry, Algebra, and Trigonometry Review of algebra and trigonometry; analytic geometry; functions; limits; derivatives, differentials, applications; integrals, applications. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 110, 140, 140A, and 140B.
Math^Calculus and Biology I Calculus and Biology I Functions, limits, analytic geometry; derivatives, differentials, applications from biology; integrals, applications from biology. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 110, 140, 140A, and 140B.
Math^Calculus with Engineering Applications I Calculus with Engineering Applications I Functions; limits; analytic geometry; derivatives; differentials, applications; integrals, applications.
Math^Calculus with Earth and Mineral Sciences Applications I Calculus with Earth and Mineral Sciences Applications I Functions, limits, analytic geometry; derivatives, differentials, applications from the earth and mineral sciences; integrals, applications from the earth and mineral sciences. Students may only take one course for credit from MATH 110, 140, 140A, 140B, 140E, and 140G.
Math^Honors Calculus with Analytic Geometry I Honors Calculus with Analytic Geometry I Honors course in functions, limits; analytic geometry; derivatives, differentials, applications; integrals, applications. Students may only take one course for credit from MATH 110, 140, 140A, 140B, and 140H.
Math^Calculus with Analytic Geometry II Calculus with Analytic Geometry II Derivatives, integrals, applications; sequences and series; analytic geometry; polar coordinates. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 141, 141B, and 141H.
Math^Calculus and Biology II Calculus and Biology II Derivatives, integrals, applications from biology; sequences and series; analytic geometry; polar coordinates. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 141 and 141B.
Math^Calculus with Engineering Applications II Calculus with Engineering Applications II Integration, applications; sequences and series; parametric equations, application.
Math^Calculus with Earth and Mineral Sciences Applications II Calculus with Earth and Mineral Sciences Applications II Derivatives, integrals, applications from the earth and mineral sciences; sequences and series; analytic geometry; polar coordinates. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 141, 141B, 141E, and 141G.
Math^Honors Calculus with Analytic Geometry II Honors Calculus with Analytic Geometry II Honors course in derivatives, integrals, applications; sequences and series; analytic geometry; polar coordinates. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 141, 141B, and 141H.
Math^Problem Solving in Mathematics Problem Solving in Mathematics Fundamental concepts of arithmetic and geometry, including problem solving, number systems, and elementary number theory. For elementary and special education teacher certification candidates only. A student who has passed EDMTH 444 may not take MATH 200 for credit.
Math^Problem Solving in Mathematics II Problem Solving in Mathematics II A continuation of MATH 200, this course studies the foundations of elementary school mathematics with an emphasis on problem solving.
Math^Calculus with Engineering Technology Applications Calculus with Engineering Technology Applications Topics in calculus with an emphasis on applications in engineering technology.
Math^Intermediate Calculus and Differential Equations with Applications Intermediate Calculus and Differential Equations with Applications Topics in ordinary differential equations, linear algebra, complex numbers, Eigenvalue solutions and Laplace transform methods.
Math^Matrices Matrices Systems of linear equations; matrix algebra; eigenvalues and eigenvectors; linear systems of differential equations.
Math^Honors Matrices Honors Matrices Honors course in systems of linear equations; matrix algebra; eigenvalues and eigenvectors; linear systems of differential equations.
Math^Calculus and Vector Analysis Calculus and Vector Analysis Three-dimensional analytic geometry; vectors in space; partial differentiation; double and triple integrals; integral vector calculus. Students who have passed either Math 231 or 232 may not schedule Math 230 or 230H for credit.
Math^Honors Calculus and Vector Analysis Honors Calculus and Vector Analysis Honors course in three-dimensional analytic geometry; vectors in space; partial differentiation; double and triple integrals; integral vector calculus. Students who have passed either MATH 231 or 232 may not schedule MATH 230 or 230H for credit.
Math^Calculus of Several Variables Calculus of Several Variables Analytic geometry in space; partial differentiation and applications. Students who have passed MATH 230 or MATH 230H may not schedule this course.
Math^Honors Calculus of Several Variables Honors Calculus of Several Variables Honors course in analytic geometry in space; partial differentiation and applications. Students who have passed MATH 230 or MATH 230H may not schedule this course.
Math^Integral Vector Calculus Integral Vector Calculus Multidimensional analytic geometry, double and triple integrals; potential fields; flux; Green's, divergence and Stokes' theorems. Students who have passed MATH 230 may not schedule this course for credit.
Math^Ordinary Differential Equations Ordinary Differential Equations First- and second-order equations; special functions; Laplace transform solutions; higher order equations. Students who have passed MATH 251 may not schedule this course for credit.
Math^Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations First- and second-order equations; special functions; Laplace transform solutions; higher order equations; Fourier series; partial differential equations.
Math^Honors Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations Honors Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations Honors course in first- and second-order equations; special functions; Laplace transform solutions; higher order equations; Fourier series; partial differential equations.
Math^Elementary Combinatorics Elementary Combinatorics Fundamental techniques of enumeration and construction of combinatorial structures, permutations, recurrences, inclusion-exclusion, permanents, 0, 1- matrices, Latin squares, combinatorial designs.
Math^Concepts in Combinatorics - Recitation Concepts in Combinatorics - Recitation Recitation for MATH 310H - Concepts in Combinatorics.
Math^Honors Concepts of Combinatorics Honors Concepts of Combinatorics Honors version of elementary and enumerative combinatorics.
Math^Honors Concepts of Discrete Mathematics Honors Concepts of Discrete Mathematics Basic methods of mathematical thinking and fundamental mathematical structures, primarily in the context of numbers, groups, and symmetries.
Math^Concepts of Discrete Mathematics Concepts of Discrete Mathematics Introduction to mathematical proofs; elementary number theory and group theory. Students who have passed CMPSC 360 may not schedule this course for credit.
Math^Concepts of Real Analysis Concepts of Real Analysis An introduction to rigorous analytic proofs involving properties of real numbers, continuity, differentiation, integration, and infinite sequences and series.
Math^Honors Concepts of Real Analysis - Recitation Honors Concepts of Real Analysis - Recitation A recitation component to MATH 312H, practice in problem solving.
Math^Honors Concepts of Real Analysis Honors Concepts of Real Analysis Basic methods of mathematical thinking and fundamental structures, primarily in the context of infinite sets, real numbers, and metric spaces.
Math^Concepts of Geometry - Recitation Concepts of Geometry - Recitation A recitation component to Math 313H, practice in problem solving.
Math^Concepts of Geometry Concepts of Geometry Development thorough understanding and technical mastery of foundations of modern geometry.
Math^PMASS Problem Solving Seminar PMASS Problem Solving Seminar Group work on challenging problems, discussions and project presentations.
Math^Foundations of Mathematics Foundations of Mathematics A consideration of selected topics in the foundations of mathematics, with emphasis on development of basic meaning and concepts.
Math^PMASS Colloquium PMASS Colloquium Bi-weekly lecture series with multiple invite speakers.
Math^Elementary Probability Elementary Probability Combinatorial analysis, axioms of probability, conditional probability and independence, discrete and continuous random variables, expectation, limit theorems, additional topics. Students who have passed either MATH 414 or 418 may not schedule this course for credit.
Math^Applied Statistics in Science Applied Statistics in Science Statistical inference: principles and methods, estimation and testing hypotheses, regression and correlation analysis, analysis of variance, computer analysis. Students who have passed MATH 415 may not schedule this course for credit.
Math^Introduction to Analysis I Introduction to Analysis I Review of calculus, properties of real numbers, infinite series, uniform convergence, power series. Students who have passed Math. 403 may not schedule this course.
Math^Classical Analysis I Classical Analysis I Topology of Rn, compactness, continuity of functions, uniform convergence, Arzela-Ascoli theorem in the plane, Stone-Wierstrass theorem.
Math^Honors Classical Analysis I Honors Classical Analysis I Development of a thorough understanding and technical mastery of foundations of classical analysis in the framework of metric spaces.
Math^Classical Analysis II Classical Analysis II Differentiation of functions from Rn to Rm, implicit function theorem, Riemann integration, Fubini's theorem, Fourier analysis.
Math^Advanced Calculus for Engineers and Scientists I Advanced Calculus for Engineers and Scientists I Vector calculus, linear algebra, ordinary and partial differential equatinos. Students who have passed MATH 411 or 412 may not take this course for credit.
Math^Advanced Calculus for Engineers and Scientists II Advanced Calculus for Engineers and Scientists II Complex analytic functions, sequences and series, residues, Fourier and Laplace transforms. Students who have passed MATH 421 may not take this course for credit.
Math^Advanced Calculus Advanced Calculus Differential and integral calculus of functions of several variables, line and surface integrals, infinite series, series of functions, power series.
Math^Complex Analysis for Mathematics and Engineering Complex Analysis for Mathematics and Engineering Complex analytic functions; Cauchy-Riemann equations; complex contour integrals; Cauchy's integral formula; Taylor and Laurent series; residue theory; applications in engineering.
Math^Ordinary Differential Equations Ordinary Differential Equations Linear ordinary differential equations; existence and uniqueness questions; series solutions; special functions; eigenvalue problems; Laplace transforms; additional topics and applications.
Math^Fourier Series and Partial Differential Equations Fourier Series and Partial Differential Equations Orthogonal systems and Fourier series; derivation and classification of partial differential equations; eigenvalue function method and its applications; additional topics.
Math^Introduction to Probability Theory Introduction to Probability Theory Probability spaces, discrete and continuous random variables, transformations, expectations, generating functions, conditional distributions, law of large numbers, central limit theorems. Students may take only one course from MATH 414 and 418 for credit.
Math^Introduction to Mathematical Statistics Introduction to Mathematical Statistics A theoretical treatment of statistical inference, including sufficiency, estimation, testing, regression, analysis of variance, and chi-square tests.
Math^Stochastic Modeling Stochastic Modeling Review of distribution models, probability generating functions, transforms, convolutions, Markov chains, equilibrium distributions, Poisson process, birth and death processes, estimation.
Math^Qualitative Theory of Differential Equations Qualitative Theory of Differential Equations Linear differential equations, stability of stationary solutions, ordinary bifurcation, exchange of stability, Hopf bifurcation, stability of periodic solutions, applications.
Math^Introduction to Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineering Introduction to Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineering Introduction to probability axioms, combinatorics, random variables, limit laws, and stochastic processes. Students may take only one course from MATH 414 and 418 for credit.
Math^Theoretical Mechanics Theoretical Mechanics Principles of Newtonian, Lagrangian, and Hamiltonian mechanics of particles with applications to vibrations, rotations, orbital motion, and collisions.
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis Infinite sequences and series; algebra and geometry of complex numbers; analytic functions; integration; power series; residue calculus; conformal mapping, applications.
Math^Wavelets and Fourier Analysis: Theory and Applications Wavelets and Fourier Analysis: Theory and Applications Fundamental mathematical issues of the theory of wavelets for senior undergraduate and graduate students in mathematics, engineering, physics, and computer science.
Math^Introduction to Operations Research Introduction to Operations Research Nature of operations research, problem formulation, model construction, deriving solution from models, allocation problems, general linear allocation problem, inventory problems.
Math^Introduction to Modern Geometry Introduction to Modern Geometry Plane and space curves; space surfaces; curvature; intrinsic geometry of surfaces; Gauss-Bonnet theorem; covariant differentiation; tensor analysis.
Math^Foundations of Geometry Foundations of Geometry Euclidean and various non-Euclidean geometries and their development from postulate systems. Students who have passed MATH 427 may not schedule MATH 471.
Math^Geometry for Teachers Geometry for Teachers Research in mathematics education using ideas from Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometry. Students who have passed MATH 471 may not schedule MATH 427.
Math^Introduction to Topology Introduction to Topology Metric spaces, topological spaces, separation axioms, product spaces, identificaiton spaces, compactness, connectedness, fundamental group.
Math^Linear Algebra and Discrete Models I Linear Algebra and Discrete Models I Vector spaces, linear transformations, matrices determinants, characteristic values and vectors, systems of linear equations, applications to discrete models.
Math^Linear Algebra and Discrete Models II Linear Algebra and Discrete Models II Vector spaces and linear transformations, matrices, determinants, characteristics values and vectors, systems of linear equations, applications to discrete models.
Math^Basic Abstract Algebra Basic Abstract Algebra Elementary theory of groups, rings, and fields. Students who have passed MATH 435 may not schedule MATH 470.
Math^Linear Algebra Linear Algebra Vector spaces and linear transformations, canonical forms of matrices, elementary divisors, invariant factors; applications. Students who have passed MATH 436 may not schedule MATH 441.
Math^Algebraic Geometry Algebraic Geometry Study of curves in the plane defined by polynomial equations p= 0. Projective equivalence, singular points, classification of cubics.
Math^Matrix Algebra Matrix Algebra Determinants, matrices, linear equations, characteristic roots, quadratic forms, vector spaces. Students who have passed Math 436 may not schedule this course.
Math^Mathematical Statistics and Applications I Mathematical Statistics and Applications I Distributions of random variables, special distributions, limiting distributions, sampling, statistical inference, point and interval estimation, orthogonal polynomials, and least squares.
Math^Mathematical Statistics and Applications II Mathematical Statistics and Applications II Further topics in point estimation, statistical hypotheses, other statistical tests, nonparametric methods.
Math^Introduction to Applied Statistics I Introduction to Applied Statistics I Descriptive statistics, probability theory, discrete and continuous probability distributions, statistical inferences for means and proportions.
Math^Introduction to Applied Statistics II Introduction to Applied Statistics II Regression, correlation, analysis of variance, contingency tables, nonparametric methods, time series, index numbers.
Math^Applied Ordinary Differential Equations Applied Ordinary Differential Equations Differential and difference equations and their application to biology, chemistry, and physics; techniques in dynamical systems theory.
Math^Mathematical Modeling Mathematical Modeling Constructing mathematical models of physical phenomena; topics include pendulum motion, polymer fluids, chemical reactions, waves, flight, and chaos.
Math^Numerical Computations Numerical Computations Algorithms for interpolation, approximation, integration, nonlinear equations, linear systems, fast FOURIER transform, and differential equations emphasizing computational properties and implementation. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 451 and 455.
Math^Introduction to Numerical Analysis I Introduction to Numerical Analysis I Floating point computation, numerical rootfinding, interpolation, numerical quadrature, direct methods for linear systems. Students may take only one course for credit from MATH 451 and MATH 455.
Math^Introduction to Numerical Analysis II Introduction to Numerical Analysis II Polynomial and piecewise polynomial approximation, matrix least squares problems, numerical solution of eigenvalue problems, numerical solution of ordinary differential equations.
Math^Introduction to Mathematical Logic Introduction to Mathematical Logic Propositional logic, first-order predicate logic, axioms and rules of inference, structures, models, definability, completeness, compactness.
Math^Theoretical Mechanics Theoretical Mechanics Continuation of Math. 419. Theoretical treatment of dynamics of a rigid body, theory of elasticity, aggregates of particles, wave motion, mechanics of fluids.
Math^Number Theory Number Theory Elements, divisibility of numbers, congruences, residues, and forms.
Math^Factorization and Primality Testing Factorization and Primality Testing Prime sieves, factoring, computer numeration systems, congruences, multiplicative functions, primitive roots, cryptography, quadratic residues. Students who have passed MATH 465 may not schedule this course.
Math^Mathematical Coding Theory Mathematical Coding Theory Shannon's theorem, block codes, linear codes, Hamming codes, Hadamard codes, Golay codes, Reed-Muller codes, bounds on codes, cyclic codes.
Math^Algebra for Teachers Algebra for Teachers An introduction to algebraic structures and to the axiomatic approach, including the elements of linear algebra. Designed for teachers and prospective teachers. Students who have passed Math 435 may not schedule this course.
Math^Geometry for Teachers Geometry for Teachers Problem solving oriented introduction to Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometries; construction problems and geometrical transformations via "Geometer's Sketchpad" software. Intended primarily for those seeking teacher certification in secondary mathematics. Students who have passed MATH 427 may not schedule this course.
Math^History of Mathematics History of Mathematics A global survey of the history of mathematics as viewed as a human response to cultural, political, economic, and societal pressures.
Math^Special and General Relativity Special and General Relativity Mathematical description, physical concepts, and experimental tests of special and general relativity.
Math^Mathematical Methods of Operations Research Mathematical Methods of Operations Research Survey of linear and nonlinear programming; mathematics of optimization; queues; simulation.
Math^Linear Programs and Related Problems Linear Programs and Related Problems Introduction to theory and applications of linear programming; the simplex algorithm and newer methods of solution; duality theory.
Math^Graph Theory Graph Theory Introduction to the theory and applications of graphs and directed graphs. Emphasis on the fundamental theorems and their proofs.
Math^Mathematical Theory of Games Mathematical Theory of Games Basic theorems, concepts, and methods in the mathematical study of games of strategy; determination of optimal play when possible.
Math^Algebra and Geometry for Mathematical Physics Algebra and Geometry for Mathematical Physics The course covers the necessary notions for the study of geometric and algebraic problems in mathematical physics. Notions like Vector spaces and Linear Transformations, Dual of Vector Space, Multilinear Forms, Pullbacks, Inner Products, Symplectic Linear Forms along with their applications will be discussed in the linear algebra part of the course. The basic categories of ordinary differential equations will be discussed and explained at the second part. Time permitting, there will be a third part on differential forms and tensors on Euclidian spaces with examples from Physics.