English^Writing from Sources I Writing from Sources I ENGL 101 Writing from Sources I (5)Includes academic reading and graphics from different genres to provide opportunities for noticing lexis and grammar of the genre and specific topic. Students discuss the topic, receiving feedback on their use of structures and lexis, and write short responses to the type of questions that might be asked on exams related to the readings. Focuses on sentence-level issues related to sentence structure and lexis. Limited to student admitted to UW with an English language requirement. Offered: AWSp.
English^Writing from Sources II Writing from Sources II ENGL 102 Writing from Sources II (5)Focuses on reading and analysis of academic texts, such as those found in textbooks, newspaper articles, journal articles, and research reports, used for writing in various rhetorical styles at the paragraph level. Second in the three-course AEP writing sequence.
English^Writing from Sources III Writing from Sources III ENGL 103 Writing from Sources III (5)Introduces and practices reading, writing, and critical thinking strategies students need to develop researched, organized, and correctly documented papers using academic sources. Introduces library research skills for finding a variety of sources. Third in the three-course AEP writing sequence.
English^Academic Listening and Speaking Academic Listening and Speaking ENGL 104 Academic Listening and Speaking (5)Aims to improve students' ability to participate in university course lectures and class discussions. Students respond to lectures, participate in and lead class discussions, and deliver short oral reports. Offered: AWSp.
English^English for International Teaching Assistants English for International Teaching Assistants ENGL 105 English for International Teaching Assistants (5)Develops language production skills, lesson planning and presentation skills, and TA-student interaction skills related to classroom teaching for international teaching assisants. Requires speak exam.
English^Writing Ready: Preparing for College Writing Writing Ready: Preparing for College Writing ENGL 108 Writing Ready: Preparing for College Writing (5)Builds writing confidence through frequent informal writing, and introductions to key learning strategies. Includes user-friendly orientation to library and research documents, revision skills, and peer review work central to 100- and 200-level college writing assignments. Offered: A.
English^Introductory Composition Introductory Composition ENGL 109 Introductory Composition (5-)
English^Introductory Composition Introductory Composition ENGL 110 Introductory Composition (-5) CDevelopment of writing skills: sentence strategies and paragraph structures. Expository, critical, and persuasive essay techniques based on analysis of selected readings. For Educational Opportunity Program students only, upon recommendation by the Office of Minority Affairs.
English^Composition: Literature Composition: Literature ENGL 111 Composition: Literature (5) CStudy and practice of good writing; topics derived from reading and discussing stories, poems, essays, and plays. Cannot be taken if student has already received a grade of 2.0 or higher in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
English^Writing Studio Writing Studio ENGL 115 Writing Studio (2)Supports multilingual students concurrently enrolled in a composition course. Builds academic reading skills in order to analyze complex texts, review, and analyze grammar structures to produce different writing effects. Also assists students to develop critical reflective skills to become better familiarized with the writing and revision process.
English^Composition: Social Issues Composition: Social Issues ENGL 121 Composition: Social Issues (5) CFocuses on the study and practice of good writing: topics derived from a variety of personal, academic, and public subjects. Includes a service-learning component allowing students to engage with and write about social issues in applied ways.. Cannot be taken if student has already received a grade of 2.0 or higher in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
English^Composition: Exposition Composition: Exposition ENGL 131 Composition: Exposition (5) CStudy and practice of good writing: topics derived from a variety of personal, academic, and public subjects. Cannot be taken if student has already received a grade of 2.0 or higher in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
English^The Research Paper The Research Paper ENGL 182 The Research Paper (5) CIncludes study of library resources, the analysis of reading materials, and writing preparatory papers as basic to writing a reference or research paper. Open to all undergraduates.
English^STUDY ABROAD STUDY ABROAD ENGL 195 STUDY ABROAD (1-5, max. 15)Equivalency for 100-level English courses taken on UW study abroad programs or direct exchanges. General elective credit only; may not apply to major requirements.
English^Interdisciplinary Writing/Humanities Interdisciplinary Writing/Humanities ENGL 197 Interdisciplinary Writing/Humanities (5, max. 15) CExpository writing based on material presented in a specified humanities lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required.
English^Interdisciplinary Writing/Social Science Interdisciplinary Writing/Social Science ENGL 198 Interdisciplinary Writing/Social Science (5, max. 15) CExpository writing based on material presented in a specified social science lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytic prose. Concurrent registration in specified course required.
English^Interdisciplinary Writing/Natural Science Interdisciplinary Writing/Natural Science ENGL 199 Interdisciplinary Writing/Natural Science (5, max. 15) CExpository writing based on material presented in a specific natural science lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required.
English^Reading Literary Forms Reading Literary Forms ENGL 200 Reading Literary Forms (5) VLPACovers techniques and practice in reading and enjoying literature in its various forms: poetry, drama, prose fiction, and film. Examines such features of literary meanings as imagery, characterization, narration, and patterning in sound and sense. Offered: AWSp.
English^Method, Imagination, and Inquiry Method, Imagination, and Inquiry ENGL 205 Method, Imagination, and Inquiry (5) VLPAExamines ideas of method and imagination in a variety of texts, in literature, philosophy, and science. Particularly concerned with intellectual backgrounds and methods of inquiry that have shaped modern Western literature. Offered: jointly with CHID 205.
English^Rhetoric in Everyday Life Rhetoric in Everyday Life ENGL 206 Rhetoric in Everyday Life (5) VLPAIntroductory rhetoric course that examines the strategic use of and situated means through which images, texts, objects, and symbols inform, persuade, and shape social practices in various contexts. Topics focus on education, public policy, politics, law, journalism, media, digital cultural, globalization, popular culture, and the arts.
English^Introduction to Cultural Studies Introduction to Cultural Studies ENGL 207 Introduction to Cultural Studies (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduces cultural studies as an interdisciplinary field and practice. Explores multiple histories of the field with an emphasis on current issues and developments. Focuses on culture as a site of political and social debate and struggle. Offered: AWSp.
English^Medieval and Early Modern Literature, 400 to 1600 Medieval and Early Modern Literature, 400 to 1600 ENGL 210 Medieval and Early Modern Literature, 400 to 1600 (5) VLPAIntroduces literature from the Middle Ages and the Age of Shakespeare, focusing on major works that have shaped the development of literary and intellectual traditions of these periods. Offered: AWSp.
English^Literature, 1500-1800 Literature, 1500-1800 ENGL 211 Literature, 1500-1800 (5) VLPA Coldewey, Remley, Shields, StreitbergerIntroduces literature from the Age of Shakespeare to the American and French Revolutions, focusing on major works that have shaped the development of literary and intellectual traditions in these centuries. Topics include: The Renaissance, religious and political reforms, exploration and colonialism, vernacular cultures, and scientific thought. Offered: AWSpS.
English^Literature, 1700-1900 Literature, 1700-1900 ENGL 212 Literature, 1700-1900 (5) VLPAIntroduces eighteenth- and nineteenth-century literature, focusing on representative works that illustrate literary and intellectual developments of the period. Topics include: exploration, empire, colonialism, slavery, revolution, and nation-building. Offered: AWSp.
English^Modern and Postmodern Literature Modern and Postmodern Literature ENGL 213 Modern and Postmodern Literature (5) VLPAIntroduces twentieth-century literature and contemporary literature, focusing on representative works that illustrate literary and intellectual developments since 1900.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare ENGL 225 Shakespeare (5) VLPAIntroduces Shakespeare's career as dramatist, with study of representative comedies, tragedies, romances, and history plays.
English^Reading Prose Fiction Reading Prose Fiction ENGL 242 Reading Prose Fiction (5) VLPACritical interpretation and meaning in works of prose fiction, representing a variety of types and periods.
English^Reading Poetry Reading Poetry ENGL 243 Reading Poetry (5) VLPACritical interpretation and meaning in poems, representing a variety of types and periods.
English^Reading Drama Reading Drama ENGL 244 Reading Drama (5) VLPACritical interpretation and meaning in plays, representing a variety of types and periods.
English^American Literature American Literature ENGL 250 American Literature (5) VLPAIntroduces American culture through a careful reading of a variety of representative texts in their historical contexts.
English^Literature and American Political Culture Literature and American Political Culture ENGL 251 Literature and American Political Culture (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduction to the methods and theories used in the analysis of American culture. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media. Offered: jointly with POL S 281.
English^Asian-American Literature Asian-American Literature ENGL 257 Asian-American Literature (5) VLPAIntroductory survey of Asian-American literature provides introduction to Chinese, Japanese, Filipino, Korean, Hawaiian, South-Asian, and Southeast-Asian American literatures and a comparative study of the basic cultural histories of those Asian-American communities from the 1800s to the present.
English^Survey of Afro-American Literature Survey of Afro-American Literature ENGL 258 Survey of Afro-American Literature (5) VLPA ButlerA chronological survey of Afro-American literature in all genres from its beginnings to the present day. Emphasizes Afro-American writing as a literary art; the cultural and historical context of Afro-American literary expression and the aesthetic criteria of Afro-American literature. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 214.
English^Introduction to Textual and Digital Studies Introduction to Textual and Digital Studies ENGL 266 Introduction to Textual and Digital Studies (5) VLPAProvides an introduction to manuscript, print, and digital media cultures with a focus on the production and dissemination of literature in English. Topics include the history of the book, reading and reception, orality and literacy, editing and publishing, early computing, and the future of literary writing in a digital era. Offered: jointly with C LIT 266.
English^The Uses of the English Language The Uses of the English Language ENGL 270 The Uses of the English Language (5) VLPASurveys the assumptions, methodologies, and major issues of English in its cultural settings. Connects English language study with the study of literature, orality and literacy, education, ethnicity, gender, and public policy.
English^Intermediate Expository Writing Intermediate Expository Writing ENGL 281 Intermediate Expository Writing (5) CWriting papers communicating information and opinion to develop accurate, competent, and effective expression.
English^Composing for the Web Composing for the Web ENGL 282 Composing for the Web (5) VLPAIntroduces the writing of nonfiction narrative and expository pieces for publication on the web. Analysis and criticism of on-line work.
English^Beginning Verse Writing Beginning Verse Writing ENGL 283 Beginning Verse Writing (5) VLPAIntensive study of the ways and means of making a poem.
English^Beginning Short Story Writing Beginning Short Story Writing ENGL 284 Beginning Short Story Writing (5) VLPAIntroduction to the theory and practice of writing the short story.
English^Writers on Writing Writers on Writing ENGL 285 Writers on Writing (5) VLPA Bosworth, Kenney, Shields, SonenbergExperiencing literature from the inside. Members of the creative writing faculty and other practicing writers discuss their poetry, fiction, and literary nonfiction, literary inspiration, artistic practice, and the writer's life.
English^Study Abroad Study Abroad ENGL 295 Study Abroad (1-5, max. 30) VLPAEquivalency for 200-level English courses taken on UW study abroad programs or direct exchanges. May not apply to major requirements.
English^Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Humanities Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Humanities ENGL 297 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Humanities (5, max. 15) CExpository writing based on materials presented in a specified humanities course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS.
English^Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Social Sciences Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Social Sciences ENGL 298 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Social Sciences (5, max. 15) CExpository writing based on materials presented in a specified social science course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS.
English^Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Natural Sciences Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Natural Sciences ENGL 299 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Natural Sciences (5, max. 15) CExpository writing based on materials presented in a specified natural science course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS.
English^Reading Major Texts Reading Major Texts ENGL 300 Reading Major Texts (5) VLPAIntensive examination of one or a few major works of literature. Classroom work to develop skills of careful and critical reading. Book selection varies, but reading consists of major works by important authors and of selected supplementary materials.
English^Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature ENGL 301 Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature (5) VLPAGateway course designed for English pre-majors and majors. Introduces critical, historical, and theoretical frameworks important to studying the literature, language, and cultures of English. Concurrent registration with ENGL 297 required. Cannot be taken for credit if student has taken ENGL 202.
English^Critical Practice Critical Practice ENGL 302 Critical Practice (5) VLPAIntensive study of, and exercise in, applying important or influential interpretive practices for studying language, literature, and culture, along with consideration of their powers/limits. Focuses on developing critical writing abilities. Topics vary and may include critical and interpretive practice from scripture and myth to more contemporary approaches, including newer interdisciplinary practices.
English^History of Literary Criticism and Theory I History of Literary Criticism and Theory I ENGL 303 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (5) VLPALiterary criticism and theory from its beginnings in Plato through the early twentieth century. Philosophical and theoretical grounds for critical practice put forward by philosophers and critics.
English^History of Literary Criticism and Theory II History of Literary Criticism and Theory II ENGL 304 History of Literary Criticism and Theory II (5) VLPAContemporary criticism and theory and its background in the New Criticism, structuralism, and phenomenology.
English^Theories of Imagination Theories of Imagination ENGL 305 Theories of Imagination (5) VLPA/I&SSurvey of theories of imagination since the seventeenth century. Focuses on the uses of the concept in literature, criticism, science, and society.
English^Introduction to Rhetoric Introduction to Rhetoric ENGL 306 Introduction to Rhetoric (5) VLPAIntroduces rhetorical theory from the classical period to the present, including an overview of core issues, vocabulary, and concepts in rhetorical theory; a discussion of methods for studying rhetoric, and a consideration of the social importance of studying rhetoric in the contemporary moment.
English^Cultural Studies Cultural Studies ENGL 307 Cultural Studies (5) VLPAOverview of cultural studies with a focus on reading texts or objects using cultural studies methods and writing analytic essays using cultural studies methods. Focuses on culture as a site of political and social debate and struggle.
English^Marxism and Literary Theory Marxism and Literary Theory ENGL 308 Marxism and Literary Theory (5) VLPAIntroduces Marxist theory and methodology. Explores how and why Marx's writings, Marxist theory, and materialist methods became central to the study of literature and culture over the course of the twentieth century.
English^Theories of Reading Theories of Reading ENGL 309 Theories of Reading (5) VLPAInvestigates what it means to be a reader. Centers on authorial and reading challenges, shifting cultural and theoretical norms, and changes in the public's reading standards.
English^The Bible as Literature The Bible as Literature ENGL 310 The Bible as Literature (5) VLPAIntroduction to the development of the religious ideas and institutions of ancient Israel, with selected readings from the Old Testament and New Testament. Emphasis on reading The Bible with literary and historical understanding.
English^Modern Jewish Literature in Translation Modern Jewish Literature in Translation ENGL 311 Modern Jewish Literature in Translation (5) VLPASurvey of Jewish experience and its literary expression since 1880. Includes such Yiddish writers as Sholom Aleichem, Peretz, and I. B. Singer; such Israeli writers as Agnon, Hazaz, and Appelfeld; and such writers in non-Jewish languages as Primo Levi and Kafka.
English^Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern ENGL 312 Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVA study of Jewish literature from Biblical narrative and rabbinic commentary to modern prose and poetry with intervening texts primarily organized around major themes: martyrdom and suffering, destruction and exile, messianism, Hasidism and Enlightenment, Yiddishism and Zionism. Various critical approaches; geographic and historic contexts. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 312.
English^Modern European Literature in Translation Modern European Literature in Translation ENGL 313 Modern European Literature in Translation (5) VLPAFiction, poetry, and drama from the development of modernism to the present. Works by such writers as Mann, Proust, Kafka, Gide, Hesse, Rilke, Brecht, Sartre, and Camus.
English^Transatlantic Literature and Culture Transatlantic Literature and Culture ENGL 314 Transatlantic Literature and Culture (5) VLPAExplores literatures and cultures produced in the Atlantic world. Emphasizes historical lines of communication and exchange among Atlantic cultures and their literature.
English^Literary Modernism Literary Modernism ENGL 315 Literary Modernism (5) VLPAVarious modern authors, from Wordsworth to the present, in relation to such major thinkers as Kant, Hegel, Darwin, Marx, Nietzsche, Bergson, and Wittgenstein, who have helped create the context and the content of modern literature.
English^Postcolonial Literature and Culture Postcolonial Literature and Culture ENGL 316 Postcolonial Literature and Culture (5, max. 10) VLPA, DIVReadings of major texts and writers in postcolonial literature and culture. Surveys some of the most important questions and debates in postcolonial literature, including issues of identity, globalization, language, and nationalism. Cultural focus may vary; see professor for specific details.
English^Literature of the Americas Literature of the Americas ENGL 317 Literature of the Americas (5) VLPA, DIVExamines writings by and about people of the Americas, with a focus on intersections of gender, colonialism, race, sexuality, and ethnicity.
English^Black Literary Genres Black Literary Genres ENGL 318 Black Literary Genres (5) VLPA Ibrahim, RetmanConsiders how generic forms have been discussed, distributed, and valued in the larger context of African American, or other African-Diasporic literary studies. Explores how black writers and artists treat the terms and conventions of generic forms in response, and comparison, to their cultural treatment of others. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 318; AWSp.
English^African Literatures African Literatures ENGL 319 African Literatures (5) VLPA ChrismanIntroduces and explores African literatures from a range of regions. Pays particular attention to writings connected with the historical experiences of colonialism, anti-colonial resistance, and decolonization. Considers the operations of race, gender, nationhood, neocolonialism, and globalization within and across these writings. Offered: AWSp.
English^English Literature: The Middle Ages English Literature: The Middle Ages ENGL 320 English Literature: The Middle Ages (5) VLPALiterary culture of Middle Ages in England, as seen in selected works from earlier and later periods, ages of Beowulf and of Geoffrey Chaucer. Read in translation, except for a few later works, which are read in Middle English.
English^Chaucer Chaucer ENGL 321 Chaucer (5) VLPAChaucer's Canterbury Tales and other poetry, with attention to Chaucer's social, historical, and intellectual milieu.
English^English Literature: The Elizabethan Age English Literature: The Elizabethan Age ENGL 322 English Literature: The Elizabethan Age (5) VLPAThe golden age of English poetry, with poems by Shakespeare, Spenser, Sidney, and others; drama by Marlowe and other early rivals to Shakespeare; prose by Sir Thomas More and the great Elizabethan translators.
English^Shakespeare to 1603 Shakespeare to 1603 ENGL 323 Shakespeare to 1603 (5) VLPAShakespeare's career as dramatist before 1603 (including Hamlet). Study of history plays, comedies, and tragedies.
English^Shakespeare After 1603 Shakespeare After 1603 ENGL 324 Shakespeare After 1603 (5) VLPAShakespeare's career as dramatist after 1603. Study of comedies, tragedies, and romances.
English^English Literature: The Late Renaissance English Literature: The Late Renaissance ENGL 325 English Literature: The Late Renaissance (5) VLPAA period of skepticism for some, faith for others, but intellectual upheaval generally. Poems by John Donne and the "metaphysical" school; poems and plays by Ben Jonson and other late rivals to Shakespeare; prose by Sir Francis Bacon and other writers.
English^Milton Milton ENGL 326 Milton (5) VLPAMilton's early poems and the prose; Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and Samson Agonistes, with attention to the religious, intellectual, and literary contexts.
English^English Literature: Restoration and Early Eighteenth Century English Literature: Restoration and Early Eighteenth Century ENGL 327 English Literature: Restoration and Early Eighteenth Century (5) VLPASelections from wits and satirists; poems by John Dryden and Alexander Pope; plays by Dryden, William Congreve, and other wits; the great satires of Jonathan Swift, and the first stirring of the novel.
English^English Literature: Later Eighteenth Century English Literature: Later Eighteenth Century ENGL 328 English Literature: Later Eighteenth Century (5) VLPAClassic age of English prose. Essays, biography, and criticism by Samuel Johnson, Oliver Goldsmith, and others; comedies by Goldsmith and Richard Brinsley Sheridan; fiction by Henry Fielding and others; poetry by a variety of writers.
English^Rise of the English Novel Rise of the English Novel ENGL 329 Rise of the English Novel (5) VLPAStudy of the development of this major and popular modern literary form in the eighteenth century. Readings of the best of the novelists who founded the form, and some minor ones, from Defoe to Fielding, Richardson, and Sterne, early Austen, and the gothic and other writers.
English^English Literature: The Romantic Age English Literature: The Romantic Age ENGL 330 English Literature: The Romantic Age (5) VLPALiterary, intellectual, and historical ferment of the period from the French Revolution to the 1830s. Readings from major authors in different literary forms; discussions of critical and philosophical issues in a time of change.
English^Romantic Poetry I Romantic Poetry I ENGL 331 Romantic Poetry I (5) VLPABlake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, and their contemporaries.
English^Romantic Poetry II Romantic Poetry II ENGL 332 Romantic Poetry II (5) VLPAByron, Shelley, Keats, and their contemporaries.
English^English Novel: Early and Middle Nineteenth Century English Novel: Early and Middle Nineteenth Century ENGL 333 English Novel: Early and Middle Nineteenth Century (5) VLPAStudies in the novel in one of its classic phases. Authors include Austen, the Brontes, Dickens, Thackeray.
English^English Novel: Later Nineteenth Century English Novel: Later Nineteenth Century ENGL 334 English Novel: Later Nineteenth Century (5) VLPAStudies in the novel as it passes from a classic format to formats more experimental. Authors include George Eliot, Thomas Hardy, Joseph Conrad, and others.
English^English Literature: The Age of Victoria English Literature: The Age of Victoria ENGL 335 English Literature: The Age of Victoria (5) VLPALiterature in an era of revolution that also sought continuity, when culture faced redefinition as mass culture and found in the process new demands and creative energies, new material and forms, and transformations of old ones. Readings range from works of Tennyson, Browning, Arnold, Shaw, to Dickens, Eliot, Hardy.
English^English Literature: Early Twentieth Century English Literature: Early Twentieth Century ENGL 336 English Literature: Early Twentieth Century (5) VLPAExperiments in fiction and poetry. Novels by Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence, and others; poetry by Eliot and Yeats and others.
English^The Modern Novel The Modern Novel ENGL 337 The Modern Novel (5) VLPAThe novel on both sides of the Atlantic in the first half of the twentieth century. Includes such writers as Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence, Stein, Hemingway, Faulkner, and others.
English^Modern Poetry Modern Poetry ENGL 338 Modern Poetry (5) VLPAPoetry in the modernist mode, including such poets as Yeats, Eliot, Pound, Auden, and Moore.
English^English Literature: Contemporary England English Literature: Contemporary England ENGL 339 English Literature: Contemporary England (5) VLPAReturn to more traditional forms in such writers as Bowen, Orwell, Waugh, Cary, Lessing, Drabble.
English^Anglo-Irish Literature Anglo-Irish Literature ENGL 340 Anglo-Irish Literature (5) VLPAPrincipal writers in English of the modern Irish literary movement - Yeats, Joyce, Synge, Gregory, and O' Casey among them - with attention to traditions of Irish culture and history.
English^Studies in the Novel Studies in the Novel ENGL 341 Studies in the Novel (5) VLPAExplores the workings and evolution of the novel. Introduces the distinct styles and purposes of the novel, such as the romance, the roman-a-clef, realism, naturalism, modernism, and postmodernism.
English^Contemporary Novel Contemporary Novel ENGL 342 Contemporary Novel (5) VLPARecent efforts to change the shape and direction of the novel by such writers as Murdoch, Barth, Hawkes, Fowles, and Atwood.
English^Contemporary Poetry Contemporary Poetry ENGL 343 Contemporary Poetry (5) VLPARecent developments by such poets as Hughes, Heaney, Rich, Kinnell, and Hugo.
English^Studies in Drama Studies in Drama ENGL 344 Studies in Drama (5) VLPAExplores the workings and historical development of theatrical practices, including performance and spectatorship more broadly. Possible topics include genres of drama (tragedy, mystery play, melodrama, agitprop); histories of drama (Elizabethan theater, Theater of the Absurd, the Mbari Mbayo club, In-Your-Face Theater_; and theorists of performance and dramaturgy.
English^Studies in Film Studies in Film ENGL 345 Studies in Film (5) VLPATypes, techniques, and issues explored by filmmakers. Emphasis on narrative, image, and point of view.
English^Studies in Short Fiction Studies in Short Fiction ENGL 346 Studies in Short Fiction (5) VLPAThe American and English short story, with attention to the influence of writers of other cultures. Aspects of the short story that distinguish it, in style and purpose, from longer fiction.
English^Studies in Non-Fiction Prose Studies in Non-Fiction Prose ENGL 347 Studies in Non-Fiction Prose (5) VLPAExplores the workings and evolution of non-fiction prose, Introduces the distinct styles and purposes on non-fiction prose such as autobiography, biography, personal essay, reflective and meditative writing, social and scientific inquiry, and persuasive writing.
English^Studies in Popular Culture Studies in Popular Culture ENGL 348 Studies in Popular Culture (5) VLPAExplores one or more popular genres (fantasy, romance, mystery) or media (comics, television, videogames), with attention to historical development, distinctive formal features, and reading protocols. May include study of audience, reception histories, or fan cultures.
English^Science Fiction and Fantasy Science Fiction and Fantasy ENGL 349 Science Fiction and Fantasy (5) VLPAThe study of the development of and specific debates in the related genres of fantasy and science fiction literatures
English^Traditions in American Fiction Traditions in American Fiction ENGL 350 Traditions in American Fiction (5) VLPAA literary form in which America has found its distinctively American expression. Selected readings among important novelists from the beginnings until 1900, including Cooper, Hawthorne, Melville, Twain, Chopin, James, and Wharton.
English^American Literature: The Colonial Period American Literature: The Colonial Period ENGL 351 American Literature: The Colonial Period (5) VLPAResponses to the New World and literary strategies in the literature of the colonies and the early republic. Works by Taylor, Edwards, Franklin, and others.
English^American Literature: The Early Nation American Literature: The Early Nation ENGL 352 American Literature: The Early Nation (5) VLPAConflicting visions of the national destiny and the individual identity in the early years of America's nationhood. Works by Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Melville, and such other writers as Poe, Cooper, Irving, Whitman, Dickinson, and Douglass.
English^American Literature: Later Nineteenth Century American Literature: Later Nineteenth Century ENGL 353 American Literature: Later Nineteenth Century (5) VLPALiterary responses to an America propelled forward by accelerating and complex forces. Works by Twain, James, and such other writers as Whitman, Dickinson, Adams, Wharton, Howells, Crane, Dreiser, DuBois, and Chopin.
English^American Literature: Early Twentieth Century American Literature: Early Twentieth Century ENGL 354 American Literature: Early Twentieth Century (5) VLPAInvestigates the period of American literary modernism (1900 to WW II). Topics include nationalism, migration, race, gender, and the impact of the visual arts on literary modernism, as well as the relation between modernity/modernization (social, economic, and technological transformation) and modernism (revolution in literary style).
English^American Literature: Contemporary America American Literature: Contemporary America ENGL 355 American Literature: Contemporary America (5) VLPAWorks by such writers as Ellison, Williams, O' Connor, Lowell, Barth, Rich, and Hawkes.
English^Classic American Poetry Classic American Poetry ENGL 356 Classic American Poetry (5) VLPAPoetry by Taylor, Whitman, Dickinson, and such others as Poe, Bradstreet, Crane, Robinson. The lineage and characteristics of lyric and epic in America.
English^Jewish American Literature and Culture Jewish American Literature and Culture ENGL 357 Jewish American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA ButwinExamines the literary and cultural production of American Jews from the colonial period to the present time. Considers ways in which American Jews assimilate and resist assimilation while Jewish writers, filmmakers, playwrights, and graphic novelists imitate and alter American life and literature. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 357; AWSp.
English^Literature of Black Americans Literature of Black Americans ENGL 358 Literature of Black Americans (5) VLPASelected writings, novels, short stories, plays, poems by Afro-American writers. Study of the historical and cultural context within which they evolved. Differences between Afro-American writers and writers of the European-American tradition. Emphasis varies. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 358.
English^Contemporary American Indian Literature Contemporary American Indian Literature ENGL 359 Contemporary American Indian Literature (5) VLPA, DIVCreative writings (novels, short stories, poems) of contemporary Indian authors; the traditions out of which these works evolved. Differences between Indian writers and writers of the dominant European/American mainstream. Offered: jointly with AIS 377.
English^American Literature and Culture American Literature and Culture ENGL 360 American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA/I&SAmerican literature and culture in its political and cultural context. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature and culture, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media.
English^American Political Culture: After 1865 American Political Culture: After 1865 ENGL 361 American Political Culture: After 1865 (5) VLPA/I&SAmerican literature in its political and cultural context from the Civil War to the present. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media.
English^U.S. Latino/a Literature U.S. Latino/a Literature ENGL 362 U.S. Latino/a Literature (5) VLPA KaupSelected contemporary and historical works by U.S. Latino/a authors. Spans U. S. Latino/a literature from the nineteenth century to the present, tracing it genealogy from a foundational triad of communities - Mexican American, Puerto Rican, and Cuban American.
English^Literature and the Other Arts and Disciplines Literature and the Other Arts and Disciplines ENGL 363 Literature and the Other Arts and Disciplines (5, max. 10) VLPARelationships between literature and other arts, such as painting, photography, architecture, and music, or between literature and other disciplines, such as science. Content varies.
English^Literature and Medicine Literature and Medicine ENGL 364 Literature and Medicine (5) VLPA/I&SHow changing concepts of doctor-patient relationship and of body depicted in literary texts affect decisions throughout the human life cycle. Medicine and disease as metaphors for personal experience and social analysis.
English^Literature and Discourse on the Environment Literature and Discourse on the Environment ENGL 365 Literature and Discourse on the Environment (5) VLPA Blake, HandwerkPays attention to verbal expression; forms and genres; and historical, cultural, and conceptual contexts of the natural environment. Focuses on sites, nations, and historical periods. Forms and genres include: nature writing, environmentalist discourses, the pastoral, the sublime, discourses of the city , fiction, poetry, nonfiction prose, dramatic forms, and religious texts. Offered: AWSpS.
English^Literature and Law Literature and Law ENGL 366 Literature and Law (5) VLPAIntroduces and explores topics in law and literature, with a focus on the relationship between legal materials and literary or cultural imaginaries. Surveys debates in the field of law and literature or focuses on a specific problem, genre, or historical period.
English^Gender Studies in Literature Gender Studies in Literature ENGL 367 Gender Studies in Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA, DIVThe study of contemporary approaches to analyzing the gender politics of literature and culture. Examines special topics in the history and development of the major theoretical trends, including the relationship of certain theories of gender to relevant works of literature.
English^Women Writers Women Writers ENGL 368 Women Writers (5, max. 15) VLPAStudy of the work of women writers in English and American literature.
English^Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric ENGL 369 Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric (5) VLPAIntroduces research theories and methodological approaches in language and rhetoric. Methods and content focus vary by instructor and may include ethnography, corpus analysis, case study, discourse analysis, rhetorical criticism, and various other qualitative and quantitative research methods.
English^English Language Study English Language Study ENGL 370 English Language Study (5) VLPAWide-range introduction to the study of written and spoken English. The nature of language; ways of describing language; the use of language study as an approach to English literature and the teaching of English.
English^English Syntax English Syntax ENGL 371 English Syntax (5) VLPADescription of sentence, phrase, and word structures in present-day English.
English^World Englishes World Englishes ENGL 372 World Englishes (5) VLPAExamines emerging World/New Englishes, and variants of English employed as a second language in former colonies of the United Kingdom and United States. Explores issues of standardization and the standard in a global perspective.
English^History of the English Language History of the English Language ENGL 373 History of the English Language (5) VLPAEvolution of English sounds, forms, structures, and word meanings from Anglo-Saxon times to the present.
English^The Language of Literature The Language of Literature ENGL 374 The Language of Literature (5) VLPARoles of explicitly describable language features in the understanding and appreciation of various verbal forms. Emphasis on literature, but attention also may be given to nonliterary prose and oral forms.
English^Rhetorical Genre Theory and Practice Rhetorical Genre Theory and Practice ENGL 375 Rhetorical Genre Theory and Practice (5)Explores the workings and evolution of rhetorical genres as they emerge from and shape recurring social situations. Focuses on the relationship between form and content, and how the typified rhetorical features and linguistic styles of genres are related to specific purposes, activities, relations, and identities.
English^Introduction to Middle English Language Introduction to Middle English Language ENGL 376 Introduction to Middle English Language (5) VLPA MooreExplores the language and culture of the Middle English period in England (1100-1500). Examines Middle English texts, the cultural importance of written material, the shifting roles of literacy in early England, the relationship to French and Latin, the regional dialects of English in the period, and manuscript culture. Offered: AWSp.
English^Special Topics in Theories/Methods Special Topics in Theories/Methods ENGL 378 Special Topics in Theories/Methods (5, max. 15)Introduces and explores a specific area of theory or method as it has influence the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English.
English^Special Topics in Forms/Genres/Media Special Topics in Forms/Genres/Media ENGL 379 Special Topics in Forms/Genres/Media (5, max. 15)Introduces and explores a specific area of form, genre, or media as it has influenced the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English.
English^Special Topics in Histories Special Topics in Histories ENGL 380 Special Topics in Histories (5, max. 15)Introduces and explores a specific area of history as it has influenced the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English.
English^Advanced Expository Writing Advanced Expository Writing ENGL 381 Advanced Expository Writing (5) CConcentration on the development of prose style for experienced writers.
English^Writing for the Web Writing for the Web ENGL 382 Writing for the Web (5, max. 10) CWriting substantial web essays on topics of current concern, Extensive analysis and criticism of on-line essays.
English^The Craft of Verse The Craft of Verse ENGL 383 The Craft of Verse (5) VLPAIntensive study of various aspects of the craft verse. Readings in contemporary verse and writing using emulation and imitation.
English^The Craft of Prose The Craft of Prose ENGL 384 The Craft of Prose (5) VLPAIntensive study of various aspects of the craft of fiction or creative nonfiction. Readings in contemporary prose and writing using emulation and imitation.
English^Modernism/Modernity Modernism/Modernity ENGL 385 Modernism/Modernity (5)Introduces and explores the genealogy, character, and consequences of the modern for textual production and reception. Addresses competing conceptions of modernism and periodizations of modernity, including: preoccupations with novelty/the new; narratives of historical development; temporality; constructions of high and low culture; intersections between aesthetics and politics; and transnationalism.
English^Study Abroad Study Abroad ENGL 395 Study Abroad (1-5, max. 30) VLPARelates major works of literature, literary theory and criticism, or creative writing to the landscape and activities of their settings for students in UW English Department study abroad programs. Equivalency for upper-division English coursework taken on a UW study abroad program or direct exchange.
English^Special Topics in Cultural Studies Special Topics in Cultural Studies ENGL 407 Special Topics in Cultural Studies (5) VLPAAdvanced work in cultural studies.
English^Introduction to the Folktale Among Literate Peoples Introduction to the Folktale Among Literate Peoples ENGL 411 Introduction to the Folktale Among Literate Peoples (3) VLPATechniques of classification, geographic-historical distribution, theories of origin and interpretations, and related areas of investigation of the oral prose folk narrative of literate peoples.
English^Arthurian Legends Arthurian Legends ENGL 422 Arthurian Legends (5) VLPAMedieval romance in its cultural and historical setting, with concentration on the evolution of Arthurian romance.
English^British Writers: Studies in Major Authors British Writers: Studies in Major Authors ENGL 430 British Writers: Studies in Major Authors (5, max. 15) VLPAConcentration on one writer or a special group of British writers.
English^Topics in British Literature Topics in British Literature ENGL 431 Topics in British Literature (5, max. 15) VLPAThemes and topics of special meaning to British literature.
English^Special Studies in Literature Special Studies in Literature ENGL 440 Special Studies in Literature (3/5, max. 10) VLPAThemes and topics offering special approaches to literature.
English^The Novel: Special Studies The Novel: Special Studies ENGL 442 The Novel: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPAReadings may be English or American and drawn from different periods, or they may concentrate on different types - gothic, experimental, novel of consciousness, realistic novel. Special attention to the novel as a distinct literary form. Specific topic varies from quarter to quarter.
English^Poetry: Special Studies Poetry: Special Studies ENGL 443 Poetry: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPAA poetic tradition or group of poems connected by subject matter or poetic technique. Specific topics vary, but might include poetry as a geography of mind, the development of the love lyric, the comic poem.
English^Dramatic Literature: Special Studies Dramatic Literature: Special Studies ENGL 444 Dramatic Literature: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPAStudy of a particular dramatic tradition (such as expressionism or the absurd theatre) or character (the clown) or technique (play-within-a-play, the neoclassical three unities). Topics vary.
English^American Writers: Studies in Major Authors American Writers: Studies in Major Authors ENGL 451 American Writers: Studies in Major Authors (5, max. 15) VLPAConcentration on one writer or a special group of American writers.
English^Topics in American Literature Topics in American Literature ENGL 452 Topics in American Literature (5, max. 15) VLPAExploration of a theme or special topic in American literary expression.
English^Introduction to American Folklore Introduction to American Folklore ENGL 453 Introduction to American Folklore (5) VLPAStudy of different kinds of folklore inherited from America's past and to be found in America today.
English^Pacific Northwest Literature Pacific Northwest Literature ENGL 457 Pacific Northwest Literature (5) VLPAConcentrates in alternate years on either prose or poetry of the Pacific Northwest. Prose works examine early exploration, conflicts of native and settlement cultures, various social and economic conflicts. Pacific Northwest poetry includes consideration of its sources, formative influences, and emergence into national prominence.
English^Gay and Lesbian Studies Gay and Lesbian Studies ENGL 466 Gay and Lesbian Studies (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVExamination of ways gays and lesbians are represented in literature, film, performance, and popular culture and how these representations are interpreted in mainstream, gay/lesbian, and academic writing.
English^Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature ENGL 470 Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature (5, max. 10) VLPAReviews the institutional history of English as an academic discipline and the core debates and politics that have shaped the content, teaching, and study of literature and literacy theory. Introduces some theoretical and methodological approaches that inform the teaching of literature.
English^Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing ENGL 471 Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing (5) VLPAReviews the research, core debates, and politics that have shaped the practice, teaching and study of writing. Introduces theoretical and methodological approaches that inform the teaching and learning of writing.
English^Language Learning Language Learning ENGL 472 Language Learning (5) VLPAConsideration of how an individual achieves psychological and esthetic grasp of reality through language; relates language development to reading skills, literary interpretation, grammar acquisition, oral fluency, discursive and imaginative writing.
English^Current Developments in English Studies: Conference Current Developments in English Studies: Conference ENGL 473 Current Developments in English Studies: Conference (5) VLPA
English^Special Topics in English for Teachers Special Topics in English for Teachers ENGL 474 Special Topics in English for Teachers (1-10, max. 10) VLPA
English^Colloquium in English for Teachers Colloquium in English for Teachers ENGL 475 Colloquium in English for Teachers (1-5, max. 10) VLPA
English^Puget Sound Writing Program Institute Puget Sound Writing Program Institute ENGL 476 Puget Sound Writing Program Institute (10) VLPAFocus on the writing process and the teaching of writing, accomplished through research, writing, reflection, and demonstration of writing instruction. Affiliated with the National Writing Project.
English^Children's Literature Children's Literature ENGL 477 Children's Literature (5) VLPAAn examination of books that form a part of the imaginative experience of children, as well as a part of a larger literary heritage, viewed in the light of their social, psychological, political, and moral implications.
English^Language and Social Policy Language and Social Policy ENGL 478 Language and Social Policy (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVExamines the relationship between language policy and social organization; the impact of language policy on immigration, education, and access to resources and political institutions; language policy and revolutionary change; language rights.
English^Language Variation and Language Policy in North America Language Variation and Language Policy in North America ENGL 479 Language Variation and Language Policy in North America (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVSurveys basic issues of language variation: phonological, syntactic, semantic, and narrative/discourse differences among speech communities of North American English; examines how language policy can affect access to education, the labor force, and political institutions.
English^Special Studies in Expository Writing Special Studies in Expository Writing ENGL 481 Special Studies in Expository Writing (5) VLPAIndividual projects in various types of nonfictional prose, such as biographical sketches, informational reports, literary reviews, and essays.
English^Advanced Verse Workshop Advanced Verse Workshop ENGL 483 Advanced Verse Workshop (5, max. 10) VLPAIntensive verse workshop. Emphasis on the production and discussion of student poetry.
English^Advanced Prose Workshop Advanced Prose Workshop ENGL 484 Advanced Prose Workshop (5, max. 10) VLPAIntensive prose workshop. Emphasis on the production and discussion of student fiction and/or creative nonfiction.
English^Novel Writing Novel Writing ENGL 485 Novel Writing (5, max. 15) VLPAExperience in planning, writing, and revising a work of long fiction, whether from the outset, in progress, or in already completed draft.
English^Playwriting Playwriting ENGL 486 Playwriting (5, max. 10) VLPAExperience in planning, writing, and revising a play, whether from the outset, in progress, or in already completed draft.
English^Screenwriting Screenwriting ENGL 487 Screenwriting (5) VLPAStudents read screenwriting manuals and screenplays, analyze exemplary films, and write synopses, treatments, and first acts of their own screenplays.
English^Internship Internship ENGL 491 Internship (1-6, max. 12)Supervised experience in local businesses and other agencies. Open only to upper-division English majors.
English^Advanced Expository Writing Conference Advanced Expository Writing Conference ENGL 492 Advanced Expository Writing Conference (1-5, max. 10)Tutorial arranged by prior mutual agreement between individual student and instructor. Revision of manuscripts is emphasized, but new work may also be undertaken.
English^Advanced Creative Writing Conference Advanced Creative Writing Conference ENGL 493 Advanced Creative Writing Conference (1-5, max. 10)Tutorial arranged by prior mutual agreement between individual student and instructor. Revision of manuscripts is emphasized, but new work may also be undertaken.
English^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar ENGL 494 Honors Seminar (5, max. 10) VLPASurvey of current issues confronting literary critics today, based on revolving themes and topics. Focuses on debates and developments affecting English language and literatures, including questions about: the relationship of culture and history; the effect of emergent technologies on literary study; the rise of interdisciplinary approaches in the humanities.
English^Major Conference for Honors in Creative Writing Major Conference for Honors in Creative Writing ENGL 495 Major Conference for Honors in Creative Writing (5)Special projects available to Honors students in creative writing. Required of, and limited to, Honors students in creative writing.
English^Major Conference for Honors Major Conference for Honors ENGL 496 Major Conference for Honors (5)Individual study (reading, papers) by arrangement with the instructor. Required of, and limited to, Honors seniors in English.
English^Honors Senior Seminar Honors Senior Seminar ENGL 497 Honors Senior Seminar (5) VLPASeminar study of special topics in language and literary study. Limited to Honors students majoring in English.
English^Senior Seminar Senior Seminar ENGL 498 Senior Seminar (5) VLPASeminar study of special topics in language and literary study. Limited to seniors majoring in English.
English^Independent Study Independent Study ENGL 499 Independent Study (1-5, max. 10)Individual study by arrangement with instructor.
English^Textual Theory Textual Theory ENGL 501 Textual Theory (5)Provides an introduction to the intellectual foundations of textual studies; historical background in disciplines of philosophy and textual criticism, theories of textuality from formalism and New Criticism to poststructuralism, and media-specific analysis; current and emerging concerns in the history of the book, media studies, globally comparative philologies, and digital humanities. Offered: jointly with C LIT 551.
English^Manuscript Studies Manuscript Studies ENGL 502 Manuscript Studies (5)An examination of the theoretical and methodological issues attending the study of written texts including literacy, circulation, production, and reception in Premodern genetics, and archival research methods. Offered: jointly with C LIT 552.
English^Studies in Print Culture and Publication Studies in Print Culture and Publication ENGL 503 Studies in Print Culture and Publication (5)An examination of the theoretical and methodological issues attending the study of printed texts; training in bibliography and the history of the book from Gutenberg's hand press to the machine and periodical presses of the nineteen and twentieth centuries; and contemporary book art. Offered: jointly with C LIT 553.
English^Digital Literary and Textual Studies Digital Literary and Textual Studies ENGL 504 Digital Literary and Textual Studies (5)An examination of digital textuality from the rise and fall of "hypertext" to contemporary convergence and transmediation in hybrid visual-verbal genres; computer games, digital video, and e-poetry. Coverage of practical issues surrounding digital scholarship and the digital humanities. Offered: jointly with C LIT 554.
English^Theories of American Literature Theories of American Literature ENGL 505 Theories of American Literature (5)Examination of selected texts in American Literature, concentrating on the specific problems of interpretation and scholarship characteristic of the study of works in this field.
English^Modern and Contemporary Critical Theory Modern and Contemporary Critical Theory ENGL 506 Modern and Contemporary Critical Theory (5)Engages ongoing critical conversations that inform English studies, including: language, textual production, disciplinarity, the university, capital, nation formation, postcolonialism, the environment, race, gender, class, and sexuality. The historical focus is contemporary, with attention to foundational modern theorists.
English^History of Literary Criticism and Theory I History of Literary Criticism and Theory I ENGL 507 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (5, max. 15)A general introduction to the major issues in the history of criticism followed by the study of the classical theorists, including Plato, Aristotle, Longinus, and the major medieval critics. Offered: jointly with C LIT 507.
English^History of Literary Criticism and Theory II History of Literary Criticism and Theory II ENGL 508 History of Literary Criticism and Theory II (5, max. 15)Literary criticism and theory from the Middle Ages and the Renaissance through the eighteenth century to, but not including, Kant. Offered: jointly with C LIT 508.
English^History of Literary Criticism and Theory III History of Literary Criticism and Theory III ENGL 509 History of Literary Criticism and Theory III (5, max. 15)Literary criticism and theory from Kant's Critique of Judgment to the mid-twentieth century and the work of Northrop Frye. Offered: jointly with C LIT 509.
English^History of Literary Criticism and Theory IV History of Literary Criticism and Theory IV ENGL 510 History of Literary Criticism and Theory IV (5, max. 15)A study of the major issues in literary criticism and theory since about 1965. Offered: jointly with C LIT 510.
English^Introductory Reading in Old English Introductory Reading in Old English ENGL 512 Introductory Reading in Old English (5)
English^Old English Language and Literature Old English Language and Literature ENGL 513 Old English Language and Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Middle English Middle English ENGL 514 Middle English (5, max. 15)
English^Chaucer Chaucer ENGL 515 Chaucer (5, max. 15)
English^Topics in Medieval English Literature Topics in Medieval English Literature ENGL 516 Topics in Medieval English Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Sixteenth-Century Literature Sixteenth-Century Literature ENGL 517 Sixteenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare ENGL 518 Shakespeare (5, max. 15)
English^Seventeenth-Century Literature Seventeenth-Century Literature ENGL 520 Seventeenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Topics in the English Renaissance, 1485-1660 Topics in the English Renaissance, 1485-1660 ENGL 522 Topics in the English Renaissance, 1485-1660 (5, max. 15)
English^Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Literature Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Literature ENGL 524 Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Romanticism Romanticism ENGL 527 Romanticism (5, max. 15)
English^Victorian Literature Victorian Literature ENGL 528 Victorian Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Topics in Nineteenth-Century Studies Topics in Nineteenth-Century Studies ENGL 529 Topics in Nineteenth-Century Studies (5, max. 15)
English^Early American Literature Early American Literature ENGL 531 Early American Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Nineteenth-Century American Literature Nineteenth-Century American Literature ENGL 532 Nineteenth-Century American Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Modern American Literature Modern American Literature ENGL 533 Modern American Literature (5, max. 15)
English^American Culture and Criticism American Culture and Criticism ENGL 535 American Culture and Criticism (5, max. 15)
English^Topics in American Studies Topics in American Studies ENGL 537 Topics in American Studies (5, max. 15)
English^Modern Literature Modern Literature ENGL 540 Modern Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Contemporary Literature Contemporary Literature ENGL 541 Contemporary Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Anglo-Irish Literature Anglo-Irish Literature ENGL 543 Anglo-Irish Literature (5, max. 15)
English^World Literature in English World Literature in English ENGL 544 World Literature in English (5, max. 15)
English^Topics in Twentieth-Century Literature Topics in Twentieth-Century Literature ENGL 546 Topics in Twentieth-Century Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Studies in Narrative Studies in Narrative ENGL 550 Studies in Narrative (5, max. 15)
English^Studies in Poetry Studies in Poetry ENGL 551 Studies in Poetry (5, max. 15)
English^Studies in Drama Studies in Drama ENGL 552 Studies in Drama (5, max. 15)
English^Theories of Structure, Genre, Form, and Function Theories of Structure, Genre, Form, and Function ENGL 554 Theories of Structure, Genre, Form, and Function (5, max. 15)
English^Feminist Theories Feminist Theories ENGL 555 Feminist Theories (5, max. 15)
English^Cultural Studies Cultural Studies ENGL 556 Cultural Studies (5, max. 15)
English^Literature and Other Disciplines Literature and Other Disciplines ENGL 559 Literature and Other Disciplines (5, max. 15)
English^The Nature of Language: History and Theory The Nature of Language: History and Theory ENGL 560 The Nature of Language: History and Theory (5)
English^Stylistics Stylistics ENGL 561 Stylistics (5)
English^Discourse Analysis Discourse Analysis ENGL 562 Discourse Analysis (5)
English^Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric ENGL 563 Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric (5, max. 15)Introduces research theories and methodological approaches in language and rhetoric. Methods and content focus include ethnography, corpus analysis, case study, discourse analysis, rhetorical criticism, and various other qualitative and quantitative research methods.
English^Current Rhetorical Theory Current Rhetorical Theory ENGL 564 Current Rhetorical Theory (5)
English^Approaches to Teaching Composition Approaches to Teaching Composition ENGL 567 Approaches to Teaching Composition (1-5, max. 10)Readings in composition theory and discussion of practical classroom applications.
English^Topics in Composition Studies Topics in Composition Studies ENGL 568 Topics in Composition Studies (5, max. 15)Covers various issues in composition studies including: the history of composition study, contemporary composition theory, basic writing, service-learning pedagogy, engaged scholarship, new media and digital studies, writing assessment, writing across the curriculum, and writing program administration.
English^Topics in Language and Rhetoric Topics in Language and Rhetoric ENGL 569 Topics in Language and Rhetoric (5, max. 15)
English^Practicum in Teaching English as a Second Language Practicum in Teaching English as a Second Language ENGL 570 Practicum in Teaching English as a Second Language (5, max. 10)Discussion and practice of second-language teaching techniques. Three hours per week teaching required in addition to regular class meetings.
English^Theory and Practice on Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Theory and Practice on Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages ENGL 571 Theory and Practice on Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (5, max. 10)Topics include second language reading, aural/oral skills, critical pedagogy, program administration, and language policy.
English^Methods and Materials for Teaching English as a Second Language Methods and Materials for Teaching English as a Second Language ENGL 572 Methods and Materials for Teaching English as a Second Language (5)
English^Research Methods in Second-Language Acquisition Research Methods in Second-Language Acquisition ENGL 574 Research Methods in Second-Language Acquisition (5)
English^Pedagogy and Grammar in Teaching English as a Second Language Pedagogy and Grammar in Teaching English as a Second Language ENGL 575 Pedagogy and Grammar in Teaching English as a Second Language (5)
English^Testing and Evaluation in English as a Second Language Testing and Evaluation in English as a Second Language ENGL 576 Testing and Evaluation in English as a Second Language (5)Evaluation and testing of English language proficiency, including testing theory, types of tests, and teacher-prepared classroom tests.
English^Colloquium in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Colloquium in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages ENGL 578 Colloquium in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (5, max. 10)Overview of major issues in second-language acquisition, teaching methodology, and classroom practice with special emphasis on links between theories of language learning and practical aspects of teaching English to speakers of other languages.
English^The Creative Writer as Critical Reader The Creative Writer as Critical Reader ENGL 581 The Creative Writer as Critical Reader (5)
English^Advanced Fiction Workshop Advanced Fiction Workshop ENGL 584 Advanced Fiction Workshop (5, max. 20)
English^Advanced Poetry Workshop Advanced Poetry Workshop ENGL 585 Advanced Poetry Workshop (5, max. 20)
English^Graduate Writing Conference Graduate Writing Conference ENGL 586 Graduate Writing Conference (5)
English^Topics in the Teaching of Creative Writing Topics in the Teaching of Creative Writing ENGL 587 Topics in the Teaching of Creative Writing (3/5)
English^Master of Arts Essay Master of Arts Essay ENGL 590 Master of Arts Essay (5/10, max. 10)Research and writing project under the close supervision of a faculty member expert and with the consultation of a second faculty reader. The field of study is chosen by the student. Work is independent and varies. The model is an article in a scholarly journal.
English^Master of Arts for Teachers Essay Master of Arts for Teachers Essay ENGL 591 Master of Arts for Teachers Essay (5)Research and writing project under the close supervision of a faculty member expert in the field of study chosen by the student within the MAT degree orientation toward the teaching of English, and with the consultation of a second faculty reader. The model is an article in a scholarly journal.
English^Graduate English Studies Graduate English Studies ENGL 592 Graduate English Studies (1-5, max. 10)
English^Topics in Teaching Literature Topics in Teaching Literature ENGL 595 Topics in Teaching Literature (5, max. 15)
English^Directed Readings Directed Readings ENGL 597 Directed Readings (*, max. 18)Intensive reading in literature or criticism, directed by members of doctoral supervisory committee.
English^Colloquium in English Colloquium in English ENGL 598 Colloquium in English (1-5, max. 10)Lectures and seminars presented by visiting scholars or a range of local scholars relevant to English graduate studies.
English^Special Studies in English Special Studies in English ENGL 599 Special Studies in English (5, max. 15)
English^Internship Internship ENGL 601 Internship (3-10, max. 10)
Economics^Introduction to Microeconomics Introduction to Microeconomics ECON 200 Introduction to Microeconomics (5) I&S, QSRAnalysis of markets: consumer demand, production, exchange, the price system, resource allocation, government intervention. Offered: AWSpS.
Economics^Introduction to Macroeconomics Introduction to Macroeconomics ECON 201 Introduction to Macroeconomics (5) I&S, QSRAnalysis of the aggregate economy: national income, inflation, business fluctuations, unemployment, monetary system, federal budget, international trade and finance.
Economics^Economics of Fisheries and Oceans Economics of Fisheries and Oceans ECON 230 Economics of Fisheries and Oceans (5) I&S/NW, QSR C. ANDERSONExamines how and why people and businesses make choices that lead to over-fishing, hypoxic zones, and oil spills in aquatic environments. Applies economic principles to understand how alternative policies might change these decisions, and how distributional effects influence politically feasible solutions. Offered: jointly with FISH 230; Sp.
Economics^Introduction to Environmental Economics Introduction to Environmental Economics ECON 235 Introduction to Environmental Economics (5) I&S/NW S. RABOTYAGOVIntroduces environmental and natural resource economics. Discusses fundamental economic concepts, including markets and private property. Includes basic tools used in the economic assessment of environmental problems and applies these methods to key environmental issues. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 235/ESRM 235; Sp.
Economics^Using Econometrics: A Practical Approach Using Econometrics: A Practical Approach ECON 282 Using Econometrics: A Practical Approach (5) NWConcerned with estimating economic relationships, confronting economic theory with facts, and testing hypotheses involving economic behavior. Specific topics include mathematical statistics, single and multiple variable regression analysis, the Gauss-Markov Theorem, hypothesis testing, model specification, multicollinearity, dummy variable, heteroskedasticity, and serial correlation.
Economics^Study Abroad: Economics Study Abroad: Economics ECON 299 Study Abroad: Economics (3-5, max. 10) I&SLower-division economics courses taken for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through a University of Washington study abroad program.
Economics^Intermediate Microeconomics Intermediate Microeconomics ECON 300 Intermediate Microeconomics (5) I&SAnalysis of decisions by individuals and by firms and of outcomes in factor and product markets. Policy issues and applications.
Economics^Intermediate Macroeconomics Intermediate Macroeconomics ECON 301 Intermediate Macroeconomics (5) I&SAnalysis of the determinants of the aggregate level of employment, output, prices, and income of an economy. Policy issues and applications with special reference to current monetary and fiscal policy.
Economics^Study Abroad: Economics Study Abroad: Economics ECON 315 Study Abroad: Economics (3-5, max. 10) I&SUpper-division economics courses for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through a University of Washington study abroad program.
Economics^Introduction to Econometrics Introduction to Econometrics ECON 382 Introduction to Econometrics (5) NWApplies statistical methods to economic data: estimating economic relationships using regression analysis and testing hypotheses involving economic behavior. Uses econometric software. Open to economics majors only. Cannot be taken for credit if ECON 482 taken previously.
Economics^Economics Internship Economics Internship ECON 399 Economics Internship (1-5, max. 10)Academic work completed in conjunction with an economics-related internship. Faculty supervision required. Does not apply toward major.
Economics^Advanced Microeconomics Advanced Microeconomics ECON 400 Advanced Microeconomics (5) NWExplores the rigorous development of mathematical models used by economists to explain the behavior of consumers, firms, and markets. Topics include comparative statics for consumption theory, duality in production, and decision-making under uncertainty.
Economics^Advanced Macroeconomics Advanced Macroeconomics ECON 401 Advanced Macroeconomics (5) NWApplication of mathematics to macroeconomics. Possible topics include economic dynamics and growth, rational expectations, real business cycle models, and New Keynesian approach.
Economics^Microeconomics: Methods and Applications Microeconomics: Methods and Applications ECON 402 Microeconomics: Methods and Applications (5) I&SGeneralizations and extensions of the course models of competition and monopoly taught in ECON 300. Topics may include: factor markets and effects of monopoly power; game theory and oligopoly theory; decision making over time; uncertainty and under asymmetric information; contracts and incentives.
Economics^The Economics of Property Rights The Economics of Property Rights ECON 403 The Economics of Property Rights (5) I&SProperty rights as an economic concept. Delineation of rights as a subject of optimization. Formation of contracts to maximize the value of personal property. Formation of organizations to induce efficient use of resources and minimize losses to public domain.
Economics^Industrial Organization and Price Analysis Industrial Organization and Price Analysis ECON 404 Industrial Organization and Price Analysis (5) I&SAnalysis of firm behavior in imperfectly competitive markets. Topics include monopoly, oligopoly, product differentiation, entry deterrence, and the role of asymmetric information. Game theoretic tools and empirical evidence used to analyze topics.
Economics^Analytical Framework for Policy and Decisions Analytical Framework for Policy and Decisions ECON 405 Analytical Framework for Policy and Decisions (5) NWExplores how insights form economics and finance can be used to design policies and formulate strategies to solve important real-life problems. Covers a variety of analytics and computational techniques, particularly those directed toward dynamics, uncertainty, and interactive decision problems.
Economics^Undergraduate Seminar in Economics Undergraduate Seminar in Economics ECON 406 Undergraduate Seminar in Economics (5, max. 10) I&SProvides the undergraduate student an opportunity to apply the tools of economic analysis in a critical examination of theoretical and empirical work. A list of topics is available in the departmental office.
Economics^Undergraduate Seminar in Political Economy Undergraduate Seminar in Political Economy ECON 409 Undergraduate Seminar in Political Economy (5, max. 10) I&SSeminar in political economy with focus on Marxian and public choice approaches to political economy. Explores the questions raised by each approach, the assumption(s) and testability of hypotheses, and applies these approaches to a number of problems in political economy. Offered: jointly with POL S 409.
Economics^Study Abroad: Economics Study Abroad: Economics ECON 415 Study Abroad: Economics (3-5, max. 10) I&SUpper-division economics courses for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through a University of Washington study abroad program.
Economics^Money, Credit, and the Economy Money, Credit, and the Economy ECON 421 Money, Credit, and the Economy (5) I&SRole of money and the banking system in the United States economy. Relation of money to inflation, interest rates, and business fluctuations. Monetary policy and Federal Reserve System.
Economics^Investment, Capital, and Finance Investment, Capital, and Finance ECON 422 Investment, Capital, and Finance (5) I&SIntertemporal optimization: consumption and portfolio allocation decisions of households, investment and financing decisions of firms. Introduction to financial decisions under uncertainty. Portfolio theory, asset pricing, options, and futures. Financial market institutions and efficiency.
Economics^Topics in Financial Economics Topics in Financial Economics ECON 423 Topics in Financial Economics (5) I&STopics of current interest such as regulation of securities markets and valuation of stocks. Allows students to apply tools of economics to real world problems in finance.
Economics^Computational Finance and Financial Econometrics Computational Finance and Financial Econometrics ECON 424 Computational Finance and Financial Econometrics (5) NWCovers probability models, data analysis, quantitative, and statistical methods using applications in finance.
Economics^Topics in Monetary Economics Topics in Monetary Economics ECON 425 Topics in Monetary Economics (5) I&STopics include monetary policy and financial markets, two transmission mechanisms, dynamics of monetary policy, targeting interest rates versus targeting the quantity of money, monetary policy under fixed versus flexible exchange rates, inflation targeting, and practices of central banks, i.e., Fed, ECB, BOJ and PBOC.
Economics^Advanced Financial Economics Advanced Financial Economics ECON 426 Advanced Financial Economics (5) I&SProvides an introduction to financial derivatives and structured financial products, with emphasis on futures, options, credit derivatives, swaps, economic theory, valuation methods, trading strategies, hedging, and securitization. Emphasizes real world applications and developments in the financial market.
Economics^Government and Business Government and Business ECON 431 Government and Business (5) I&SEconomic effects of various governmental regulatory agencies and policies. Antitrust legislation as a means of promoting desired market performance. Observed economic effects of policies intended to regulate business practices, control prices, conserve resources, or promote competition.
Economics^Natural Resource Economics Natural Resource Economics ECON 435 Natural Resource Economics (5) I&SSurvey of the economics of renewable and nonrenewable resources including fisheries, forest, minerals, and fuels. Optimal trade-offs between benefits and costs of resource use, including trade-offs between current and future use. Effects of property rights on resource use.
Economics^Economics of the Environment Economics of the Environment ECON 436 Economics of the Environment (5) I&SMicroeconomic analysis of environmental regulation. The problem of social cost, policy instrument choice, enforcement of regulations, methods for damage assessment, and estimating benefits of environmental improvement.
Economics^Economics of Biological Resources Economics of Biological Resources ECON 437 Economics of Biological Resources (5) I&SApplication of economic concepts to biology and biological concepts to economics. Examination of theory of species maximization, parallels in behavior between humans and other biota, animal choices among alternative food sources, games animals play, evidence of risk aversion in animals.
Economics^Economics of Human Resource Management Economics of Human Resource Management ECON 442 Economics of Human Resource Management (5)Analyzes the relationship between personnel practices and organizational performance. Economic analysis of compensation policy emphasized. Topics include hiring and retention strategies; incentive pay; relative performance evaluation; teams; promotions; seniority; and organization design. Examines human capital accumulation and labor legislation.
Economics^Labor Market Analysis Labor Market Analysis ECON 443 Labor Market Analysis (5) I&SDeterminants of employment and incomes in the United States: analysis of individual and firm decisions and of equilibrium in the labor market. Topics include decisions to work and retire, education and occupation choices, compensation, discrimination, poverty, unemployment, and unions. Examination of policy issues affecting the labor market.
Economics^Topics in Labor Market Analysis Topics in Labor Market Analysis ECON 444 Topics in Labor Market Analysis (5) I&SIn-depth analysis of special topics in the operation of labor markets and public policies affecting incomes and employment. Course content varies by instructor.
Economics^Economics of Education Economics of Education ECON 446 Economics of Education (5) I&SExamines formal education as an investment industry, the economics of human capital investment, and competition among government-owned schools and the non-profit sector.
Economics^Economics of Gender Economics of Gender ECON 447 Economics of Gender (5) I&S, DIVMicroeconomic analysis of the sources of gender differences in earnings, labor force participation, occupational choice, education, and consumption. Economic theories of discrimination, human capital, fertility, and intrahousehold resource allocation. Economics of the family in developed and developing countries.
Economics^Population and Development Population and Development ECON 448 Population and Development (5) I&S, DIVSurveys international economic development, with a focus on population issues. Topics include demography, poverty and income inequality, fertility choice and sex selection, household production models and intra-household inequality, parental investments in child health and education, including discrimination against girls, and migration and urbanization. Focuses on evidence-based policy and differential impacts on diverse communities within developing societies.
Economics^Public Finance: Expenditure Policy Public Finance: Expenditure Policy ECON 450 Public Finance: Expenditure Policy (5) I&SApplication of normative microeconomic theory to analysis of government expenditures. Rationale for government economic activity, collective choice, public goods, and externalities, income redistribution, public sector pricing, and specific expenditure programs.
Economics^Public Finance: Tax Policy Public Finance: Tax Policy ECON 451 Public Finance: Tax Policy (5) I&SMicroeconomics of taxation: efficiency, incidence, effect on distribution of income, personal and corporate income taxes, sales and consumption taxes, taxation of property and estates.
Economics^Economic Theory as Applied to the Political System Economic Theory as Applied to the Political System ECON 452 Economic Theory as Applied to the Political System (5) I&SExplanation and evaluation of the political system, using elementary economics theory. Topics include alternative voting rules, the political effectiveness of various types of groups, causes and consequences of logrolling, and bureaucratic organizations.
Economics^Cost-Benefit Analysis Cost-Benefit Analysis ECON 454 Cost-Benefit Analysis (5) I&STheory and practice of cost-benefit analysis of public sector projects and policies. Welfare criteria, investment criteria, shadow prices, social discount rate, marginal-willingness-to-pay for non-market goods, social risk, and special topics.
Economics^Microeconomics of Public Policy Microeconomics of Public Policy ECON 455 Microeconomics of Public Policy (5) I&STopics include general equilibrium analysis of efficiency and equity, income and substitution effects, analysis of alternative welfare programs, intergovernmental grants, price discrimination, price controls, rationing, industry regulation, and public goods.
Economics^Financial Crisis Financial Crisis ECON 464 Financial Crisis (5) I&SCauses, effects, and cures for financial crisis traced through history from the Tulip Bubble, to the Great Depression, to the East Asian Crisis of 1997, and beyond. Explores the original work of Fisher, Keynes, Friedman, and Krugman, among others.
Economics^Economic History of the Jews Economic History of the Jews ECON 470 Economic History of the Jews (5) I&SExplores the history, economics, and politics of mercantile minorities, the Jews. Topics include the economics of religion, migration, Zionism, Arab-Israeli relations, and Israeli high-tech.
Economics^International Trade International Trade ECON 471 International Trade (5) I&STheory of comparative advantage and different models of international trade. Trade and welfare. Factor mobility and trade flows. Economic integration. Theory and practice of commercial policy.
Economics^International Macroeconomics International Macroeconomics ECON 472 International Macroeconomics (5) I&SInternational monetary theory and open economy macroeconomics. Balance of payments and foreign exchange markets. Different exchange rate arrangements and their adjustment mechanisms. Money and international capital movements. Policy issues. The international monetary system.
Economics^Topics in International Trade Topics in International Trade ECON 473 Topics in International Trade (5) I&SAdvanced theory of trade and analysis of government trade policies. International trade and factor mobility. Theory of commercial policy.
Economics^Economics of the European Union Economics of the European Union ECON 475 Economics of the European Union (5) I&SAnalysis of economic issues relating to the European union. Explores the institutional aspects, the attempt to coordinate social and economic policies - welfare, employment, commercial, fiscal, and monetary - and the economic linkages between the European Union and the rest of the world.
Economics^Econometric Theory and Practice Econometric Theory and Practice ECON 482 Econometric Theory and Practice (5) NWApplies statistical modeling to empirical work in economics. Focuses on regression analysis; derivations of regression estimators and their properties; and applied computer work in estimating multiple regression models.
Economics^Econometric Applications Econometric Applications ECON 483 Econometric Applications (5) NWProvides opportunity to learn econometric model building for a particular problem while applying the theory learned in various courses to specific economic cases. Estimate, test, and forecast economic models. Extensive use of the computer and econometric programs.
Economics^Econometrics and Data Science Econometrics and Data Science ECON 484 Econometrics and Data Science (5) NWAdvanced continuation of ECON 482 and ECON 483. Traditional topics: structural modeling, non-linear and logistic regression, the LASSO, and non-traditional topics: regression and classification trees, bagging, boosting, and random forests. Computer based, uses the R language, emphasizing interpretation, not formal proofs.
Economics^Game Theory with Applications to Economics Game Theory with Applications to Economics ECON 485 Game Theory with Applications to Economics (5) NWIntroduction to the main concepts of game theory: strategy, solution concepts for games, strategic behavior, commitment, cooperation, and incentives. Application to economics oligopoly theory, bargaining theory, and contract theory.
Economics^Economics of Information Economics of Information ECON 486 Economics of Information (5) I&SBasic models of decision making and strategic interaction in the presence of imperfect and incomplete information. Information issues in market exchange and in hierarchical settings. Includes adverse selection, moral hazard, signaling, and screening.
Economics^Comparative Economic Systems Comparative Economic Systems ECON 490 Comparative Economic Systems (5) I&SStudy of resource allocation, growth, and income distribution in capitalist, market socialist, and centrally planned economies.
Economics^Issues in Economic Development Issues in Economic Development ECON 491 Issues in Economic Development (5) I&SExamines factors contributing to the economic problems of developing countries and possible solutions. Theory and applications in economic development and international trade.
Economics^Macroeconomics of Emerging Markets Macroeconomics of Emerging Markets ECON 492 Macroeconomics of Emerging Markets (5) I&SExamines how the standard macroeconomic models that are used in industrial countries can be modified to help understand the macroeconomic issues facing emerging and developing countries. Covers topics including fiscal policy, inflation targeting, financial market stability, natural resource dependence, and institutional reforms.
Economics^Economy of Japan Economy of Japan ECON 494 Economy of Japan (5) I&SAnalysis of the economic growth of Japan since about 1850 to the present. The reasons for rapid industrialization, various effects of sustained economic growth, and significant contemporary issues are investigated.
Economics^Economies in Transition Economies in Transition ECON 495 Economies in Transition (5) I&SAnalysis of the interaction between institutional change and economic performance in the transforming socialist economies. Resources allocation in command economies. Market institutions. Primary focus on empirical comparison of growth, productivity, and social institutions in former socialist economies in Asia, Europe, and Central Asia.
Economics^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar ECON 496 Honors Seminar (5) I&SHonors and other students in high standing have the opportunity to develop research techniques, to pursue topics in breadth and depth, and to apply tools of economic analysis to selected topics in economic theory and current issues of national and international economic policy.
Economics^Honors Directed Study Honors Directed Study ECON 497 Honors Directed Study (5)Students write their honors thesis on the topic chosen in the Honors Seminar working under the previously arranged supervision of a faculty adviser.
Economics^Senior Seminar Senior Seminar ECON 498 Senior Seminar (5) I&SAdvanced undergraduate research in economics. Students formulate some underlying economic issue, organize its study, gather necessary information, and analyze results. Does not satisfy graduation requirement for the major.
Economics^Microeconomic Analysis I Microeconomic Analysis I ECON 500 Microeconomic Analysis I (4)Duality and comparative statics analysis. Consumer and firm behavior. Uncertainty.
Economics^Microeconomic Analysis II Microeconomic Analysis II ECON 501 Microeconomic Analysis II (4)General equilibrium and welfare economics. Introduction to game theory.
Economics^Macroeconomic Analysis I Macroeconomic Analysis I ECON 502 Macroeconomic Analysis I (4)Topics include theories of business cycles, dynamics of price adjustments, consumption theory, dynamic programming, introduction to numerical techniques, and open economy macroeconomics.
Economics^Macroeconomic Analysis II Macroeconomic Analysis II ECON 503 Macroeconomic Analysis II (4)Rational expectations in macroeconomic models. Dynamic optimizing models under uncertainty. Empirical examination of consumption, asset-pricing, and real business cycles.
Economics^Microeconomic Analysis III Microeconomic Analysis III ECON 508 Microeconomic Analysis III (4)Information economics.
Economics^Macroeconomic Analysis III Macroeconomic Analysis III ECON 509 Macroeconomic Analysis III (4)Modern macroeconomic dynamics, presenting a range of approaches based on intertemporal optimization. Representative agent models with special emphasis on the analysis of government policy. More advanced discussion of economic growth.
Economics^Advanced Microeconomic Theory: Selected Topics Advanced Microeconomic Theory: Selected Topics ECON 511 Advanced Microeconomic Theory: Selected Topics (3, max. 12)Seminar in advanced microtheory. Selected topics of special interest and significance.
Economics^Advanced Macroeconomic Theory: Selected Topics Advanced Macroeconomic Theory: Selected Topics ECON 512 Advanced Macroeconomic Theory: Selected Topics (3, max. 12)Seminar in advanced macrotheory. Selected topics of special interest and significance.
Economics^Special Topics in Mathematical Economics Special Topics in Mathematical Economics ECON 515 Special Topics in Mathematical Economics (3, max. 12)
Economics^Noncooperative Game Theory Noncooperative Game Theory ECON 516 Noncooperative Game Theory (3)Study of both pure game theory and its applications to such problems as oligopoly pricing, non-cooperative bargaining, entry deterrence, reputation phenomena. Focus on game theory as a modeling tool as opposed to a body of known results.
Economics^Contract Theory Contract Theory ECON 518 Contract Theory (3)Basic contract theory models, including hidden action and hidden information models. Current developments in contract theory.
Economics^Economics of Contracts and Organizations: Empirics Economics of Contracts and Organizations: Empirics ECON 519 Economics of Contracts and Organizations: Empirics (3) ShiCritically reviews empirical literature on contracts and organization. Topics include multi-tasking; incentives and risk sharing; relative and subjective performance evaluation; team production; tournament and promotion; efficiency wage; career concern; relational contracts; asset specificity and asset ownership; complexity, uncertainty, asset ownership; adverse selection.
Economics^The Economics of Property Rights The Economics of Property Rights ECON 520 The Economics of Property Rights (3)Application of standard economic theory to analyze various forms of property rights as constraints of competition; the costs associated with delineation and enforcement of rights; the costs of negotiating and enforcing contracts for right transfers; resource allocation and income distribution implied by different property right and transaction cost constraints.
Economics^Emergence of the State Emergence of the State ECON 523 Emergence of the State (3)Using tools of property rights, industrial organization, and game theory, explores the emergence of the state. Specifies conditions conducive to constitutional rule. Analyzes circumstances amenable to state-promoted exchange as opposed to self-enforced agreements.
Economics^Computational Economics Computational Economics ECON 525 Computational Economics (3)Develops a basic understanding of computational techniques used in the economic literature. Demonstrates, with economic examples, when and how these techniques are used and why and how they work.
Economics^Empirics and Theory in Macroeconomics Empirics and Theory in Macroeconomics ECON 527 Empirics and Theory in Macroeconomics (3)Explores the integration of empirical and theoretical methods central to macroeconomic research. Exposes students to frontier areas of research to help them learn substantive material and transition to conducting their own independent research.
Economics^Micro Heterogeneity in Macroeconomics Micro Heterogeneity in Macroeconomics ECON 528 Micro Heterogeneity in Macroeconomics (3)Discusses the role of heterogeneity in impulse and propagation of shocks to output, consumption, and asset prices. Covers empirical methods and theoretical models to further our understanding of these topics.
Economics^Empirical Industrial Organization Empirical Industrial Organization ECON 534 Empirical Industrial Organization (3)Exposes students to the research frontier in empirical industrial organization. Topics include identification in linear models, models of product differentiation, estimation in data-rich environments, static games of imperfect competition, dynamic games of imperfect competition, and computational approaches to large-scale games.
Economics^Natural Resource Economics Natural Resource Economics ECON 535 Natural Resource Economics (3)Half of integrated two-course sequence in environmental and natural resource economics. Dynamic optimization. Nonrenewable resource extraction and exploration, including effects of market structure, uncertainty, and taxation. Renewable resources, including fisheries and forests.
Economics^Environmental Economics Environmental Economics ECON 536 Environmental Economics (3)Half of integrated two-course sequence in environmental and natural resource economics. Theory of externalities. Normative and positive analysis of policy instruments for environmental management. Theory and methods of measuring environmental and resource values.
Economics^Economic Aspects of Marine Policy Economic Aspects of Marine Policy ECON 537 Economic Aspects of Marine Policy (3)Development of pertinent economic concepts and their application to selected topics in marine policy decision making, including maritime policy, OCS oil and gas development, and wetlands management.
Economics^Economics of Living Marine Resources Economics of Living Marine Resources ECON 538 Economics of Living Marine Resources (3)Develops pertinent economic concepts and applications for conservation, regulation, and restoration of fisheries and other living resources. Gives special attention to fishery management, including harvest regulation and enforcement, recreational fisheries evaluation, property rights regimes, contemporary issues, and marine protected area management. Offered: jointly with SMEA 538; Sp.
Economics^ECONOMICS OF NATURAL RESOURCES SEMINAR III ECONOMICS OF NATURAL RESOURCES SEMINAR III ECON 539 ECONOMICS OF NATURAL RESOURCES SEMINAR III (3)
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics ECON 541 Labor Economics (3)Theoretical and empirical analysis of the labor market, focusing on the time allocation and labor supply decisions of individuals and households and the determinants of wages and wage differentials.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics ECON 542 Labor Economics (3)Theoretical and empirical analysis of the labor market. The determinants of labor supply and demand, human capital investment, the pattern of compensation, employment contracts and incentives, unemployment and labor market dynamics.
Economics^Population Economics Population Economics ECON 543 Population Economics (3)Analysis of population issues from an economic perspective. Focuses on the study of household behavior in both developed and developing countries. Studies areas including fertility decisions, health and mortality, investment in education, the intra-household allocation of resources, and household structure and marriage.
Economics^Health Policy Economics Health Policy Economics ECON 547 Health Policy Economics (3)Applies economic theory to selected topics in healthcare, including information, risk and insurance, industry organization, government regulation, and public health issues. Emphasizes policy implications of these applications. Offered: jointly with HSERV 587.
Economics^Public Finance: Expenditure Policy Public Finance: Expenditure Policy ECON 550 Public Finance: Expenditure Policy (3)Theory of public finance with emphasis on public expenditures. Social welfare maximization, public goods and externalities, decreasing cost industries, theory of collective choice, second-best analysis.
Economics^Public Finance: Tax Policy Public Finance: Tax Policy ECON 551 Public Finance: Tax Policy (3)Theory of public finance with emphasis on taxation. Second-best analysis, optimal taxation, general equilibrium incidence analysis, issues in personal income taxation and corporate income taxation.
Economics^Cost-Benefit Analysis Cost-Benefit Analysis ECON 554 Cost-Benefit Analysis (3)Covers the theoretical foundations of cost-benefit analysis using graduate microeconomics. Stresses both the conceptual and practical problems encountered in the subject. Emphasis on problem solving and term project.
Economics^Game Theory for Social Scientists Game Theory for Social Scientists ECON 568 Game Theory for Social Scientists (5)Studies non-cooperative game-theory and provides tools to derive appropriate statistical models from game-theoretic models of behavior. Equilibrium concepts, learning, repeated games and experimental game theory.
Economics^International Trade Theory International Trade Theory ECON 571 International Trade Theory (3)Comparative advantage, resource allocation, income distribution, and foreign trade. Different theories of trade, with or without perfect competition and constant returns. International factor mobility.
Economics^International Financial and Monetary Economics International Financial and Monetary Economics ECON 572 International Financial and Monetary Economics (3)Analysis of open economy macro models with emphasis on exchange rates and balance of payments determination.
Economics^International Commercial Policy International Commercial Policy ECON 573 International Commercial Policy (3)Analysis of welfare aspects of international trade and factor mobility. Costs and benefits of protection; implications of different government policies. Import competition and response.
Economics^International Macroeconomics International Macroeconomics ECON 574 International Macroeconomics (3)Surveys recent developments in international macroeconomics, placing particular emphasis on the dynamic aspects. One sector, multisector, and two-country international models discussed. Fiscal issues treated in depth. Stochastic aspects introduced and related to the literature on international real business cycles.
Economics^International Trade and Macroeconomics International Trade and Macroeconomics ECON 575 International Trade and Macroeconomics (3)Studies how international macroeconomic models with trade microfoundations can shed light on questions in international macroeconomics. Theories are confronted with evidence, and special attention is paid to the roles of produces entry and exit into markets, and of firm heterogeneity, in shaping aggregate fluctuations and economic policy outcomes.
Economics^Introduction to Mathematical Statistics: Econometrics I Introduction to Mathematical Statistics: Econometrics I ECON 580 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics: Econometrics I (5)Examines methods, tools, and theory of mathematical statistics. Covers, probability densities, transformations, moment generating functions, conditional expectation. Bayesian analysis with conjugate priors, hypothesis tests, the Neyman-Pearson Lemma. Likelihood ratio tests, confidence intervals, maximum likelihood estimation, Central limit theorem, Slutsky Theorems, and the delta-method. (Credit allowed for only one of STAT 390, STAT 481, and ECON 580.)
Economics^Econometrics II Econometrics II ECON 581 Econometrics II (4)Methods, tools, and theory of econometrics as the basis for empirical investigation in economics. Specification, testing, and use of econometric models with reference to examples in the literature.
Economics^Econometrics III Econometrics III ECON 582 Econometrics III (4)Methods, tools, and theory of econometrics as the basis for empirical investigation in economics. Specification, testing, and use of econometric models with reference to examples in the literature.
Economics^Econometric Theory I Econometric Theory I ECON 583 Econometric Theory I (3)Estimation and testing in linear and nonlinear regression models. Asymptotic theory, bootstrapping. Theoretical developments are reinforced with a variety of empirical examples and applications.
Economics^Econometric Theory II Econometric Theory II ECON 584 Econometric Theory II (3)Continuation of ECON 583. Analysis of stationary and nonstationary, univariate, and multivariate time series models. Emphasis on empirical applications.
Economics^Econometric Theory III Econometric Theory III ECON 585 Econometric Theory III (3)Econometric issues that arise in applied microeconomic research. Topics range from standard methods to recent developments. Focus varies yearly to reflect interests of instructors and students.
Economics^Advanced Applied Time Series Analysis Advanced Applied Time Series Analysis ECON 586 Advanced Applied Time Series Analysis (3)Time series and empirical macroeconomics with focus on applications of time series analysis to various topics in macroeconomics and finance. Topics include: state-space models and Kalman filter; Markov-switching models and their extensions; Bayesian Gibbs sampling; randomization; and measurement of volatility.
Economics^Applied Microeconometrics Applied Microeconometrics ECON 587 Applied Microeconometrics (3)Application of microeconomics methods. Topics include treatment effects, instrumental variables, natural experiments, measurement error, panel data, difference-in-differences, sibling data, regression discontinuity, randomization, and quantile regression.
Economics^Bayesian Econometics Bayesian Econometics ECON 588 Bayesian Econometics (3)Introduces the Bayesian approach to econometrics, and examines how estimation problems can be recast in a Bayesian light. Emphasizes practical technique. Examines Bayesian methods, standard econometric models, and computational issues.
Economics^Financial Econometrics Financial Econometrics ECON 589 Financial Econometrics (4)Focuses on statistical modeling of financial time series with an emphasis on modeling volatility and correlation. Topics include statistical properties of asset returns, volatility and correlation modeling, statistical analysis of ultra high frequency time series, and estimation of continuous time models for asset returns.
Economics^Analysis of Economies in Transition Analysis of Economies in Transition ECON 590 Analysis of Economies in Transition (3)Applications of economic analysis to the economic problems of transforming socialist economies. Economic institutions. The role of the state. Privatization and the behavior of decentralized organizations. Integration into the world market.
Economics^Microeconomics of Development Microeconomics of Development ECON 591 Microeconomics of Development (3)Theoretical and empirical analysis of the microeconomics of development. Focuses on the study of household behavior in developing countries and how households respond to missing/imperfect markets. Topics include land access, nutrition and productivity, responses to risks and shocks, credit markets, micro-finance, and program evaluation.
Economics^Development Policy Development Policy ECON 592 Development Policy (3)Theoretical and empirical analysis of macroeconomic policies pursued by developing countries. Topics include the determination of exchange rates and relative prices in small economies; the examination of government spending, taxation, banking, trade, and labor market policies; and the evaluation of market-oriented economic reform programs.
Economics^Topics in Microeconomics of Development Topics in Microeconomics of Development ECON 593 Topics in Microeconomics of Development (3)Builds on ECON 591, studying a variety of special topics in development economics, including health, education, political economy, behavioral development economies, and environmental economics in developing countries.
Economics^Economic Growth Economic Growth ECON 594 Economic Growth (3)Studies various theoretical approaches to the question of why some countries are richer than others using generalizations and extensions of contemporary macroeconomic theory. Discusses the implications of various macroeconomic policies for economic growth.
Economics^Growth and Inequality Growth and Inequality ECON 595 Growth and Inequality (3)Introduces the modern tools of macroeconomic analysis, in the context of several research topics in the areas of growth and inequality. Helps prepare students to undertake research of their own.
Economics^Research Issues in Microeconomics Research Issues in Microeconomics ECON 596 Research Issues in Microeconomics (3)Provides opportunity to practice research and presentation skills in applied and theoretical microeconomics. Students develop and refine thesis topics under faculty supervision. Maximum of 6 credits allowed in 596, 597, and 598 combined.
Economics^Research Issues in Econometrics Research Issues in Econometrics ECON 599 Research Issues in Econometrics (3)For second-year students or above who plan to do research in micro-econometrics or nonparametric and semi-parametric econometrics. Provides a forum for state-of-the-art research and an opportunity for students to practice research and presentation skills in applied and theoretical econometrics.
Economics^Internship Internship ECON 601 Internship (1-9, max. 9)
Economics^Teaching Introductory Economics Teaching Introductory Economics ECON 602 Teaching Introductory Economics (1)Examines problems encountered in preparing and presenting courses in introductory economics.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Undergraduate Research CHEM Undergraduate Research CHEM E 299 Undergraduate Research (1-3, max. 9)Research or special topics under the supervision of a faculty member. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Leadership Seminar CHEM Leadership Seminar CHEM E 301 Leadership Seminar (1) SchwartzForum for industrial, academic, and government leaders to share their experiences and insights with students. Includes topics related to leadership in the chemical engineering profession including career planning, management skills, interpersonal skills, effective planning, entrepreneurship, ethics, and strategic decisions. Offered: A.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Creativity and Innovation CHEM Creativity and Innovation CHEM E 309 Creativity and Innovation (2) VLPA G. ALLANUnderstanding creativity and creative thinking; its challenges and dynamics through knowledge, judgment, planning, and observation. Techniques of creative thinking. Design and development of creative games. Computer-aided creative thinking. Creation, protection, and exploitation of a useful idea, including bargaining and negotiations. Offered: jointly with BSE 309; Sp.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Material and Energy Balances CHEM Material and Energy Balances CHEM E 310 Material and Energy Balances (4)Chemical and physical process calculations: steady- and unsteady-state material and energy balances with specific examples in vapor-liquid contact operations and multiphase extraction, and introductory thermochemistry.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Energy and Entropy CHEM Energy and Entropy CHEM E 325 Energy and Entropy (4)Introduction to the basic principles of thermodynamics from both microscopic and macroscopic points of view. Emphasis on equilibrium phenomena, and the trade-off of energy and disorder in determining structure and properties. Applications of thermodynamics in process design and analysis.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics CHEM Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics CHEM E 326 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics (4)Phase equilibria and chemical equilibria in multicomponent systems; theories of solution; chemical reaction analysis.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Transport Processes I CHEM Transport Processes I CHEM E 330 Transport Processes I (5)Diffusive transport of momentum, heat, and mass; general aspects of fluid flow; the Navier-Stokes equations; one-dimensional flow with engineering applications.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Transport Processes II CHEM Transport Processes II CHEM E 340 Transport Processes II (4)Heat transfer, basic principles, and applications. Conduction, convection, and radiation.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Energy and Environment CHEM Energy and Environment CHEM E 341 Energy and Environment (3) NWEnergy use. Fossil energy conversion. Oil, gas, coal resources. Air impacts. Nuclear energy principles, reactors, fuel cycle.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Biological Frameworks for Engineers CHEM Biological Frameworks for Engineers CHEM E 355 Biological Frameworks for Engineers (3) ShenFor engineers with no prior experience in the biological sciences. Hands-on, project-based course covers fundamental concepts and language of biology, from an engineering perspective. Topics include functions of life, information processing, proteins, DNA, genetic variability, control loops, energetics, tissues, organisms, ecosystems.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Chemical Enginering Computer Skills CHEM Chemical Enginering Computer Skills CHEM E 375 Chemical Enginering Computer Skills (2) PfaendtnerUse Excell, Matlab, and AspenPlus to solve typical chemical engineering problems. Solve realistic problems and explore alternatives that would be inaccessible for hand calculations. Includes equations of state, chemical equilibrium of simultaneous reactions, phase equilibria, plug flow reactors, heat transfer in 1-D, and time-dependent heat transfer. Offered: W.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Transport Processes III CHEM Transport Processes III CHEM E 435 Transport Processes III (4)Mass transfer, basic principles, and applications to equipment design. Physical separation processes.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Chemical Engineering Laboratory I CHEM Chemical Engineering Laboratory I CHEM E 436 Chemical Engineering Laboratory I (3)Lectures on statistics, experimental design, instrumentation, laboratory safety, and report writing; laboratory experiments on fluid mechanics and heat transfer. Emphasis on teaming, experimental planning, procedures, report writing, and oral presentations.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Chemical Engineering Laboratory II CHEM Chemical Engineering Laboratory II CHEM E 437 Chemical Engineering Laboratory II (3)Continuation of CHEM E 436. Laboratory investigation of chemical engineering principles applied to equipment design with emphasis on mass transfer operations and chemical reactors.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Renewable Energy CHEM Renewable Energy CHEM E 442 Renewable Energy (4) NW P. MALTEIntroduction to renewable energy. Principles and practices: solar, wind, water, and biomass energy conversion.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Fuel Cell Engineering CHEM Fuel Cell Engineering CHEM E 445 Fuel Cell Engineering (3) StuveIntroduction to electrochemical fuel cells for use in transportation and stationary power applications. Topics covered include types of fuel cells, single cell operation, stack engineering, overall system design, and safety, with emphasis on proton exchange membrane and solid oxide fuel cells.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Surface and Colloid Science Laboratory CHEM Surface and Colloid Science Laboratory CHEM E 455 Surface and Colloid Science Laboratory (3) Berg, PozzoLaboratory techniques, equipment, and underlying fundamentals in surface and colloid science. Experiments in the measurement of surface tension, adsorption, wetting and spreading, colloid properties, emulsion preparation and stability, electrophoresis, and interfacial hydrodynamics. Offered: ASp.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Principles of Molecular Engineering CHEM Principles of Molecular Engineering CHEM E 457 Principles of Molecular Engineering (3) HillhouseCovers the basic aspects of statistical mechanics, focusing primarily on the canonical ensemble. Develops and applies a set of tools to regular liquid solutions, phase formation, spinodal decomposition, adsorption, polymer thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, and physical kinetics.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Surface Analysis CHEM Surface Analysis CHEM E 458 Surface Analysis (3) B. RATNERUnderstanding of solid surfaces for research and development in microelectronics, catalysis, adhesion, biomaterials, science wear, and corrosion science. Newer methods available to study surfaces of materials. Electron emission spectroscopies (ESCA, Auger): ion scattering, ion spectroscopic, photon spectroscopic, and thermodynamic methods. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 492; Sp.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Electrochemical Engineering CHEM Electrochemical Engineering CHEM E 461 Electrochemical Engineering (3) SchwartzExplores role of thermodynamics, charge transfer kinetics, and mass transfer on behavior of electrochemical systems. Includes cell thermodynamics, faradaic and non-faradaic rate processes, ionic transport, nucleation and growth theories. Applications to chemical sensors, batteries, corrosion, thin film deposition. In-class demonstrations to illustrate concepts.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Reactor Design CHEM Reactor Design CHEM E 465 Reactor Design (4)Application of chemical kinetics and transport phenomena to the design of chemical reactors; characterization of batch and continuous-flow reactors in homogeneous and heterogeneous systems.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Biochemical Engineering CHEM Biochemical Engineering CHEM E 467 Biochemical Engineering (3) F. BANEYXApplication of basic chemical engineering principles to biochemical and biological process industries such as fermentation, enzyme technology, and biological waste treatment. Rapid overview of relevant microbiology, biochemistry, and molecular genetics. Design and analysis of biological reactors and product recovery operations.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design CHEM Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design CHEM E 468 Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design (3)Designs to control air pollutants from stationary sources. Procedures for calculating design and operating parameters. Fundamental mechanisms and processes of gaseous and particulate control equipment for absorption and adsorption of gaseous pollutants; electrostatic precipitation and filtration of particulate pollutants. Actual case studies. Offered: jointly with CEE 494/M E 468.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Process Dynamics and Control CHEM Process Dynamics and Control CHEM E 480 Process Dynamics and Control (4)Dynamics of process units and systems; instrumentation and control system design and analysis. Includes weekly laboratory.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Process Optimization CHEM Process Optimization CHEM E 481 Process Optimization (3) HoltConcepts and techniques of optimizing chemical engineering processes and systems, including classical and direct methods of search, linear and nonlinear programming, dynamic programming, statistical experimental design, and evolutionary operation. Offered: A.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Advanced Topics in Process Control CHEM Advanced Topics in Process Control CHEM E 482 Advanced Topics in Process Control (3) Holt, RickerCurrent topics in process control design and analysis. Possible topics include robustness analysis and design, time delay compensation, modern frequency response techniques, discrete control, adaptive control, model-based control, and nonlinear control.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers CHEM Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers CHEM E 484 Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers (3) JenekheCovers the chemistry, physics, materials science, and engineering applications of semiconducting and metallic conjugated polymers. Examines the structural origins of the diverse electronic and optoelectronic properties of conjugated polymers. Exemplifies applications by light-emitting diodes, lasers, solar cells, thin film transistors, electrochromic devices, biosensors, and batteries.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Process Design I CHEM Process Design I CHEM E 485 Process Design I (4)Applied economics in chemical engineering design and operations; measures of profitability; capital and operating cost estimates; introduction to design and design strategies.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Process Design II CHEM Process Design II CHEM E 486 Process Design II (5)Comprehensive design of a specific process or product, including economic feasibility studies, utilization of market survey and plant location studies, process equipment design and optimization, and overall plant integration and layout.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications CHEM Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications CHEM E 490 Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications (3)Combined application of principles of physical chemistry and biochemistry, materials engineering, to biomedical problems and products. Applications include implants and medical devices, drug delivery systems, cell culture processes, diagnostics, and bioseparations. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 490; A.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Controlled-Release Systems CHEM Controlled-Release Systems CHEM E 491 Controlled-Release Systems (3) S. PUNMechanisms for controlled release of active agents and the development of useful drug delivery systems for this purpose. Release mechanisms considered include diffusive, convective, and erosive driving forces. Delivery routes include topical, oral, and in vivo. Some special case studies covered in detail. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 491; W.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Advanced Surface Analysis CHEM Advanced Surface Analysis CHEM E 493 Advanced Surface Analysis (3) D. CASTNERCovers the latest advanced in surface analysis instrumentation and methodology, including advanced methods of biorecognition AFM, surface Plasmon resonance, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sum frequency generation spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and multivariate analysis.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Special Projects in Chemical Engineering Design CHEM Special Projects in Chemical Engineering Design CHEM E 497 Special Projects in Chemical Engineering Design ([1-6]-, max. 12)Chemical engineering design instruction and experience in special projects, such as industrially motivated, timely, or interdisciplinary projects. Project subject and content varies. Majors only.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Special Topics in Chemical Engineering CHEM Special Topics in Chemical Engineering CHEM E 498 Special Topics in Chemical Engineering (1-4, max. 12)Topics of current interest in the field. Subject matter changes from quarter to quarter.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Undergraduate Research CHEM Undergraduate Research CHEM E 499 Undergraduate Research ([1-6]-, max. 12)Independent research projects in chemical engineering. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory CHEM Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory CHEM E 510 Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory (4)Mathematical foundations for system theory presented from an engineering viewpoint. Includes set theory; functions, inverse functions; metric spaces; finite dimensional linear spaces; linear operators on finite dimensional spaces; projections on Hilbert spaces. Applications to engineering systems stressed. Offered: jointly with A A 510/E E 510/M E 510.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Biomaterials Seminar CHEM Biomaterials Seminar CHEM E 511 Biomaterials Seminar (1, max. 18) D. CASTNER, L. GAMBLEPresentation of student research results.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Methods of Engineering Analysis CHEM Methods of Engineering Analysis CHEM E 512 Methods of Engineering Analysis (3)Applications of mathematics to problems in chemical engineering; vector calculus; properties and methods of solution of first and second order partial differential equations; similarity transforms, separation of variables, Laplace and Fourier transforms.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Advanced Chemical Engineering Laboratory CHEM Advanced Chemical Engineering Laboratory CHEM E 514 Advanced Chemical Engineering Laboratory (3) Q. YUInstrumentation and laboratory techniques for chemical, biological, clean energy, and nano technologies. Experiments include surface modification, this film formation, nanoparticle synthesis, micro/nanoscale fabrication, protein adsorption, microorganism identification, and photovoltaic device fabrication/evaluation using advanced instrumentation. Offered: W.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Experimental Methods in Chemical Engineering Research CHEM Experimental Methods in Chemical Engineering Research CHEM E 515 Experimental Methods in Chemical Engineering Research (3) Baneyx, Berg, JiangLecture and laboratory studies in current research methods of chemical engineering. Includes surface science, biochemical engineering, collodial chemistry, light scattering, and nanoscience techniques. Offered: A.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Seminar in Chemical Engineering CHEM Seminar in Chemical Engineering CHEM E 523 Seminar in Chemical Engineering (0-1, max. 30)Topics of current interest in chemical engineering. Offered: AWSp.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics CHEM Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics CHEM E 525 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics (4)Review of principles of thermodynamics. Applications to problems in multiphase and multicomponent systems; theories of solutions.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Momentum, Heat, and Mass Transfer I CHEM Momentum, Heat, and Mass Transfer I CHEM E 530 Momentum, Heat, and Mass Transfer I (4)Derivation of the differential equations for mass, energy, and momentum transport. Principles of fluid mechanics; creeping flow, turbulence, boundary-layer theory. Offered: A.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Momentum, Heat, and Mass Transfer II CHEM Momentum, Heat, and Mass Transfer II CHEM E 531 Momentum, Heat, and Mass Transfer II (3)Continuation of CHEM E 530. Flows of fluid-particle systems; convective heat transfer, natural convection.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Nanoscale Science I: Contact Mechanics and Rheology on the Nanoscale CHEM Nanoscale Science I: Contact Mechanics and Rheology on the Nanoscale CHEM E 554 Nanoscale Science I: Contact Mechanics and Rheology on the Nanoscale (3) OverneyIntroductory nanoscale science with emphasis on contact mechanics, principle and concept of forces, scanning force microscopy, tribology (friction, wear, lubrication), rheology, ultrathin organic films, physical properties of polymers, and computer simulation. Offered: W.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Colloidal Systems CHEM Colloidal Systems CHEM E 556 Colloidal Systems (3) Berg, PozzoExamines the unique properties and application of colloidal materials, i.e., dispersions of micro- or nano-sized particles in various media are described. Explores their inherent instability, and their kinetic, phoretic, electric, optical, and rheological properties. Offered: W.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Surface Analysis CHEM Surface Analysis CHEM E 558 Surface Analysis (3) B. RATNERUnderstanding of solid surfaces for research and development in microelectronics, catalysis, adhesion, biomaterials science, wear and corrosion science. Newer methods available to study surfaces of materials. Electron emission spectroscopies (ESCA, Auger); ion scattering, ion spectroscopic, photon spectroscopic, and thermodynamic methods. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 592.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Reactions at Solid Surfaces CHEM Reactions at Solid Surfaces CHEM E 560 Reactions at Solid Surfaces (3) StuveFundamental studies of adsorption and reactions on metallic and non-metallic surfaces with emphasis on heterogeneous catalysis and electrochemistry, including fuel cells. Topics include gas phase and liquid phase surface reactions, analyzed both experimentally and computationally.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Kinetics and Catalysis CHEM Kinetics and Catalysis CHEM E 565 Kinetics and Catalysis (3) StuveHomogeneous and heterogeneous systems with emphasis on chemical engineering principles applied to industrial reactor design.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Topics in Chemical Engineering Design CHEM Topics in Chemical Engineering Design CHEM E 580 Topics in Chemical Engineering Design (3, max. 9)Lectures and seminars on current design methods in chemical engineering, including technical and economic feasibility of processes, design and optimization of process equipment, and environmental and social constraints.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers CHEM Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers CHEM E 584 Electronic and Optoelectronic Polymers (3) JenekheCovers the chemistry, physics, materials science, and engineering applications of semiconducting and metallic conjugated polymers. Examines the structural origins of the diverse electronic and optoelectronic properties of conjugated polymers. Exemplifies applications by light-emitting diodes, lasers, solar cells, thin film transistors, electrochromic devices, biosensors, and batteries.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Research in Applied Microbiology CHEM Research in Applied Microbiology CHEM E 588 Research in Applied Microbiology (1, max. 30) LidstromWeekly research seminar and discussion of scientific literature pertaining to applied microbiology.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Advanced Topics in Biomaterials CHEM Advanced Topics in Biomaterials CHEM E 590 Advanced Topics in Biomaterials (3)Major, controversial issues in application of synthetic materials to medical problems. Blood compatibility, bioadhesion, intraocular lenses, contact lenses, polyurethanes, biodegradation, protein adsorption, corrosion, bone fixation, new materials, artificial heart, medical device regulation.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium CHEM Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium CHEM E 591 Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium (1, max. 30)Colloquium on current topics in robotics and control systems analysis and design. Topics presented by invited speakers as well as on-campus speakers. Emphasis on the cross-disciplinary nature of robotics and control systems. Offered: jointly with A A 591/E E 591/M E 591.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Advanced Surface Analysis CHEM Advanced Surface Analysis CHEM E 593 Advanced Surface Analysis (3) D. CASTNERCovers the latest advanced in surface analysis instrumentation and methodology, including advanced methods of biorecognition AFM, surface Plasmon resonance, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sum frequency generation spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and multivariate analysis.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Current Topics in Chemical Engineering CHEM Current Topics in Chemical Engineering CHEM E 599 Current Topics in Chemical Engineering (1-5, max. 12)Readings or lectures and discussions of topics of current interest in the field of chemical engineering. Subject matter changes from year to year.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Independent Study or Research CHEM Independent Study or Research CHEM E 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)Offered: AWSpS.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Master's Thesis CHEM Master's Thesis CHEM E 700 Master's Thesis (*-)Offered: AWSpS.
Chemical Engineering^CHEM Doctoral Dissertation CHEM Doctoral Dissertation CHEM E 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-)Offered: AWSpS.
Chemistry^Introduction to General Chemistry Introduction to General Chemistry CHEM 110 Introduction to General Chemistry (3-5) NWIntroduction to general chemistry with an emphasis on developing problem solving skills. Covers basic concepts of chemistry along with the mathematics required for quantitative problem solving. For students without high school chemistry or with limited mathematics background. Successful completion of CHEM 110 prepares students to enroll in CHEM 142. Offered: A.
Chemistry^Principles of Chemistry I Principles of Chemistry I CHEM 120 Principles of Chemistry I (5) NW, QSRFirst course in a three-quarter overview of general chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry. Not for students majoring in biochemistry, chemistry, or engineering. Includes matter and energy, chemical nomenclature, chemical reactions, stoichiometry, modern atomic theory, chemical bonding. Laboratory. Only 5 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following: CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145. Offered: AS.
Chemistry^General Chemistry General Chemistry CHEM 142 General Chemistry (5) NW, QSRFor science and engineering majors. Atomic nature of matter, stoichiometry, gas laws, chemical equilibrium, solubility, and acids and bases. Includes laboratory. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 142, CHEM 145 (5 credits). Cannot be taken for credit if CHEM 120 already taken. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemistry^Honors General Chemistry Honors General Chemistry CHEM 145 Honors General Chemistry (5) NW, QSRCHEM 145 and CHEM 155 cover material in CHEM 142, CHEM 152, and CHEM 162. Includes laboratory.
Chemistry^General Chemistry General Chemistry CHEM 152 General Chemistry (5) NW, QSRAqueous equilibria, titrations, buffers, energy, enthalpy and thermochemistry, spontaneity, entropy and free energy, electrochemistry, quantum mechanics, and atomic theory. Includes laboratory.
Chemistry^Honors General Chemistry Honors General Chemistry CHEM 155 Honors General Chemistry (5) NW, QSRContinuation of CHEM 145. Includes laboratory. Together CHEM 145 and CHEM 155 cover material in CHEM 142, CHEM 152, and CHEM 162. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 152 or CHEM 155 (5 credits); CHEM 145, CHEM 155, CHEM 162 (10 credits).
Chemistry^General Chemistry General Chemistry CHEM 162 General Chemistry (5) NW, QSRGeneral bonding and molecular-orbital theory, chemical kinetics, liquids and solids, properties of solutions, the elements in groups 1A-4A, the elements in groups 5A-8A, transition metals and coordination chemistry, and organic chemistry. Includes laboratory.
Chemistry^Honors General Chemistry Honors General Chemistry CHEM 165 Honors General Chemistry (5) NW, QSRIntroduction to systematic inorganic chemistry: representative elements, metals, and nonmetals. Includes coordination complexes, geochemistry, and metallurgy. Additional material on environmental applications of basic chemistry presented. Includes laboratory. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 162, CHEM 165 (5 credits); CHEM 165, CHEM 312 (5 credits).
Chemistry^Freshman Discovery Seminar in Chemistry Freshman Discovery Seminar in Chemistry CHEM 190 Freshman Discovery Seminar in Chemistry (5) NWIntroduces incoming freshman to research basics and scholarly inquiry skills used in the study of chemistry.
Chemistry^Tutorial Study Tutorial Study CHEM 198 Tutorial Study (2, max. 6) NW
Chemistry^Special Problems Special Problems CHEM 199 Special Problems (1-6, max. 6)Research in chemistry. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemistry^Principles of Chemistry II Principles of Chemistry II CHEM 220 Principles of Chemistry II (5) NWSecond course in a three-quarter overview of general chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry. Not for students majoring in biochemistry, chemistry, or engineering. Introduction to organic chemistry including organic compounds, , functional groups, aromaticity, and stereochemistry.
Chemistry^Principles of Chemistry III Principles of Chemistry III CHEM 221 Principles of Chemistry III (5) NWThird course in a three-quarter overview of general chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry. Not for students majoring in biochemistry, chemistry, or engineering. Introduction to biochemistry including biomolecular structure, proteins, nucleic acids, biochemical cycles, and cellular energetics. Only 5 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following: CHEM 221, CHEM 223, CHEM 237, CHEM 335.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry - Short Program Organic Chemistry - Short Program CHEM 223 Organic Chemistry - Short Program (4) NWFirst of a two-quarter lecture series in organic chemistry, for those who elect not to complete the CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 239 sequence. Introduction to structure, nomenclature, properties, and reactions of the main functional families of organic compounds. Stereochemistry and spectroscopy. No more than 5 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 221, CHEM 223, CHEM 237, CHEM 335.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry - Short Program Organic Chemistry - Short Program CHEM 224 Organic Chemistry - Short Program (4) NWContinuation of CHEM 223. Structure, nomenclature, properties, and reactions of aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acid derivatives, amines, carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids, peptides, proteins, and nucleic acids. No laboratory accompanies this course, but CHEM 241 laboratory may be taken concurrently. No more than 4 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 224, CHEM 239, CHEM 337.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Organic Chemistry CHEM 237 Organic Chemistry (4) NWFirst course for students planning to take three quarters of organic chemistry. Structure, nomenclature, reactions, and synthesis of the main types of organic compounds. No organic laboratory accompanies this course. No more than 5 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 221, CHEM 223, CHEM 237, CHEM 335.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Organic Chemistry CHEM 238 Organic Chemistry (4) NWSecond course for students planning to take three quarters of organic chemistry. Further discussion of physical properties and transformations of organic molecules, especially aromatic and carbonyl compounds. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 238, CHEM 336 (4 credits).
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Organic Chemistry CHEM 239 Organic Chemistry (3) NWThird course for students planning to take three quarters of organic chemistry. Polyfunctional compounds and natural products, lipids, carbohydrates, amino acids, proteins, and nucleic acids. Includes introduction to membranes, enzyme mechanisms, prosthetic groups, macromolecular conformations and supramolecular architecture. No more than 4 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 224, CHEM 239, CHEM 337.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Laboratory Organic Chemistry Laboratory CHEM 241 Organic Chemistry Laboratory (3) NWIntroduction to organic laboratory techniques. Preparation of representative compounds. Designed to be taken with CHEM 224 or CHEM 238. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 241, CHEM 346 (3 credits).
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Laboratory Organic Chemistry Laboratory CHEM 242 Organic Chemistry Laboratory (3) NWPreparations and qualitative organic analysis. Designed to be taken with 239. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 242, CHEM 347 (3 credits).
Chemistry^Study Abroad - Chemistry Study Abroad - Chemistry CHEM 291 Study Abroad - Chemistry (1-15, max. 15) NWFor student in the UW study abroad program. Content varies and is individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major degree requirements without departmental approval.
Chemistry^Special Problems and Report Writing Special Problems and Report Writing CHEM 299 Special Problems and Report Writing (1-6, max. 6)Research in chemistry and/or study in the chemical literature. Requires writing a scientific report. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemistry^Inorganic Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry CHEM 312 Inorganic Chemistry (3) NWThe periodic table: chemistry of representative and transition elements. Aqueous chemistry, solid state chemistry, and everyday aspects of inorganic chemistry emphasized. Not intended for students who have completed CHEM 165. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 165, CHEM 312 (5 credits).
Chemistry^Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory CHEM 317 Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory (4) NWExperimental exploration of the periodic table. Techniques of preparation and characterization of inorganic compounds. Handling of air-sensitive materials and gases.
Chemistry^Quantitative Analysis Quantitative Analysis CHEM 321 Quantitative Analysis (5) NWIntroduction to chemical analysis, including gravimetric, volumetric, spectrophotometric, and potentiometric analyses. Laboratory computer use included.
Chemistry^Honors Organic Chemistry Honors Organic Chemistry CHEM 335 Honors Organic Chemistry (4) NWFor chemistry majors and otherwise qualified students planning three or more quarters of organic chemistry. Structure, nomenclature, reactions, and synthesis of organic compounds. Theory and mechanism of organic reactions. Studies of biomolecules. No organic laboratory accompanies this course. No more than 5 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 221, CHEM 223, CHEM 237, CHEM 335.
Chemistry^Honors Organic Chemistry Honors Organic Chemistry CHEM 336 Honors Organic Chemistry (4) NWFor chemistry majors and otherwise qualified students planning three or more quarters of organic chemistry. Structure, nomenclature, reactions, and synthesis of organic compounds. Theory and mechanism of organic reactions. Studies of biomolecules. No more than 4 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 238, CHEM 336.
Chemistry^Honors Organic Chemistry Honors Organic Chemistry CHEM 337 Honors Organic Chemistry (4) NWFor chemistry majors and otherwise qualified students planning three or more quarters of organic chemistry. Structure, nomenclature, reactions, and synthesis of organic compounds. Theory and mechanism of organic reactions. Studies of biomolecules. Includes introduction to membranes, enzyme mechanisms, prosthetic groups, macromolecular conformations, and supramolecular architecture. No more than 4 credits can be counted toward graduation from the following course groups: CHEM 239, CHEM 337.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry Honors Laboratory Organic Chemistry Honors Laboratory CHEM 346 Organic Chemistry Honors Laboratory (3) NWTo accompany CHEM 336. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 241, CHEM 346 (3 credits).
Chemistry^Organic and Qualitative Organic Honors Laboratory Organic and Qualitative Organic Honors Laboratory CHEM 347 Organic and Qualitative Organic Honors Laboratory (3) NWContinuation of CHEM 346. To accompany CHEM 337. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 242, CHEM 347 (3 credits).
Chemistry^Radiochemistry Laboratory Radiochemistry Laboratory CHEM 410 Radiochemistry Laboratory (2) NWIntroductory general service course for students planning further work in nuclear or tracer applications. Safety procedures, detection and measurement of nuclear radiation, radiochemical and tracer techniques.
Chemistry^Transition Metals Transition Metals CHEM 416 Transition Metals (3) NWSurvey of selected key topics in the chemistry of the transition metals, including emphasis on the structure, bonding, and reactivity of major classes of compounds.
Chemistry^Organometallic Chemistry Organometallic Chemistry CHEM 417 Organometallic Chemistry (3) NWChemistry of the metal-carbon bond for both main group and transition metals. Structure and reactivity with applications to organic synthesis and catalysis.
Chemistry^Nuclear Chemistry Nuclear Chemistry CHEM 418 Nuclear Chemistry (3) NWNatural radioactivity, nuclear systematics and reactions, radioactive decay processes, stellar nucleosynthesis, applications of radioactivity.
Chemistry^Bioinorganic Chemistry Bioinorganic Chemistry CHEM 419 Bioinorganic Chemistry (3) NWDescription of transition metal-containing systems found in biology. Structural and electronic properties and reactivity of metalloproteins, metalloenzymes, and metallocofactors. Methods used to probe and model metal sites by spectroscopic and synthetic techniques.
Chemistry^Instrumental Analysis Instrumental Analysis CHEM 426 Instrumental Analysis (3) NWIntroduction to modern instrumental methods of chemical analysis, including chromatography, optical and mass spectroscopy, electrochemistry and flow injection analysis. Basic concepts of transducers, spectrometers, mass analysis, separation sciences, and computerized data acquisition and reduction. Includes laboratory.
Chemistry^Bioinstrumental Analysis Bioinstrumental Analysis CHEM 428 Bioinstrumental Analysis (3) NWModern instrumental methods of bioanalysis of DNA and proteins, including agarose gel electrophoresis, PCR, Sanger sequencing for nucleic acid analysis and ELISA, SDS-PAGE, and LC/MS-MS analysis of proteins. Mass analysis, separation sciences, and bioinformatics tools. Includes laboratory. No credit allowed if BIOC 426 taken.
Chemistry^Chemical Separation Techniques Chemical Separation Techniques CHEM 429 Chemical Separation Techniques (3) NWIntroduction to modern separation techniques such as gas chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography, electrophoresis, and field flow fractionation.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology Chemical Biology CHEM 436 Chemical Biology (3) NWProtein structure and forces that hold proteins together; mechanistic enzymology, basics of how enzymes work as catalysts; protein-ligand binding, both theory and measurement approaches; fundamentals of protein analysis including gels and immunological methods; activity-based protein profiling. DNA synthesis along with methods for directed DNA mutagenesis and recombinant protein production.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry for Biochemists I Physical Chemistry for Biochemists I CHEM 452 Physical Chemistry for Biochemists I (3) NWGeneral equilibrium thermodynamics emphasizing biochemical applications: ligand binding, biological oxidation-reduction reactions, membranes, active transport, colligative properties, and surface tension. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following: 452, 456 (3 credits).
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry for Biochemists II Physical Chemistry for Biochemists II CHEM 453 Physical Chemistry for Biochemists II (3) NWContinuation of CHEM 452. Includes transport properties, enzyme kinetics, introduction to quantum mechanics, spectroscopy, and classical statistical mechanics.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry CHEM 455 Physical Chemistry (3) NWIntroduction to quantum chemistry and spectroscopy. Theory of quantum mechanics presented at an elementary level and applied to the electronic structure of atoms and molecules and to molecular spectra.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry CHEM 456 Physical Chemistry (3) NWChemical thermodynamics. Laws of thermodynamics presented with applications to phase equilibria, chemical equilibria, and solutions. No more than the number of credits indicated can be counted toward graduation from the following course group: CHEM 452, CHEM 456 (3 credits).
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry CHEM 457 Physical Chemistry (3) NWIntroduction to statistical mechanics, kinetic theory, and chemical kinetics.
Chemistry^Air Pollution Chemistry Air Pollution Chemistry CHEM 458 Air Pollution Chemistry (4) NWGlobal atmosphere as a chemical system emphasizing physical factors and chemical processes that give rise to elevated surface ozone, particulate matter, and air toxics; international issues of air pollution transport and changing tropospheric background composition; and regulatory control strategies and challenges. Aimed at science and engineering majors. Offered: jointly with ATM S 458; A.
Chemistry^Spectroscopic Molecular Identification Spectroscopic Molecular Identification CHEM 460 Spectroscopic Molecular Identification (3) NWBasic theory of spectral techniques - infrared and ultraviolet/visible spectroscopy, NMR, and mass spectrometry - with emphasis on spectral interpretation skills needed for the elucidation of structure, conformation, and dynamics in organic and biological chemistry.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Laboratory Physical Chemistry Laboratory CHEM 461 Physical Chemistry Laboratory (3) NWPhysical measurements in chemistry. Vacuum techniques, calorimetry, spectroscopic methods, electrical measurements.
Chemistry^Techniques of Synthetic Organic Chemistry Techniques of Synthetic Organic Chemistry CHEM 462 Techniques of Synthetic Organic Chemistry (2-3) NWLaboratory techniques of synthetic organic chemistry. Vacuum distillation, multistep synthesis, air sensitive reagents, photochemistry, chromatography, and separation techniques.
Chemistry^Spectroscopic Techniques for Structural Identification Spectroscopic Techniques for Structural Identification CHEM 463 Spectroscopic Techniques for Structural Identification (2) NWLaboratory techniques of spectroscopic analysis for structural determination using UV, IR, NMR, mass spectroscopy.
Chemistry^Computers in Data Acquisition and Analysis Computers in Data Acquisition and Analysis CHEM 464 Computers in Data Acquisition and Analysis (3) NWIntroduction to use of the computer in the chemistry laboratory. Principles of microcomputers and their use for such problems as data acquisition, noise reduction, and instrument control.
Chemistry^Computations in Chemistry Computations in Chemistry CHEM 465 Computations in Chemistry (3) NWComputer calculations on color graphics workstations applied to problems in chemistry. Numerical methods and algorithms for calculating classical dynamics, quantum wavefunctions, wavepacket propagation, chemical kinetics. Use of computer programs for calculating electronic wavefunctions, molecular conformations, simulations of liquids and solids.
Chemistry^Honors Physical Chemistry Honors Physical Chemistry CHEM 475 Honors Physical Chemistry (3) NWIntroduction to quantum chemistry, spectroscopy. Theory of quantum mechanics applied more rigorously than in CHEM 455. Application of quantum mechanics to electronic structure of atoms and molecules. Computer software used to solve problems.
Chemistry^Materials Chemistry Materials Chemistry CHEM 484 Materials Chemistry (3) NWOverview of basic principles, techniques, and applications associated with solid materials. Topics include description of crystals, examples of crystal structures, structural analysis, band structures of solid materials, preparation of materials, materials for microelectronics, and materials for information technology.
Chemistry^Electronic Structure and Application of Materials Electronic Structure and Application of Materials CHEM 485 Electronic Structure and Application of Materials (3) NWIntroduction to electronic structure theory of solids from a chemical perspective, including band theory and the free electron model, with an emphasis in the second half of the quarter on modern trends in research in inorganic materials in the bulk and on the nanometer scale.
Chemistry^Electronic Dynamics in Organic and Inorganic Materials Electronic Dynamics in Organic and Inorganic Materials CHEM 486 Electronic Dynamics in Organic and Inorganic Materials (3) NWEnergy and charge transfer; exciton migration and charge transport; photophysical dynamics in optoelectronic and kinetic processes in electrochemical energy conversion.
Chemistry^Study Abroad - Advanced Chemistry Study Abroad - Advanced Chemistry CHEM 491 Study Abroad - Advanced Chemistry (1-15, max. 15) NWFor students in the UW study abroad program. Content varies and is individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major degree requirements without departmental approval.
Chemistry^Undergraduate Research and Report Writing Undergraduate Research and Report Writing CHEM 499 Undergraduate Research and Report Writing (*, max. 12)Research in chemistry and/or study in the chemical literature. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemistry^Grant Proposal and Scientific Writing Grant Proposal and Scientific Writing CHEM 500 Grant Proposal and Scientific Writing (1)Introduces steps in compiling a successful grant proposal and writing scientific articles, personal statements, research summaries, and procuring recommendation letters, using the NSF graduate fellowship as a guide. Students gain experience in peer review processes as assessment of current scientific literature. Offered: A.
Chemistry^Readings in Chemistry Readings in Chemistry CHEM 501 Readings in Chemistry (1, max. 9)Individual meetings with faculty to discuss readings (journal articles, book chapters, proceedings) in the chemical sciences. Offered: AWSpS.
Chemistry^Advanced Inorganic Chemistry Advanced Inorganic Chemistry CHEM 508 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry (3, max. 9)Discussion of selected applications of physical techniques to the study of inorganic molecules. Topics include group theory, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR and ESR), vibrational spectroscopy (IR and Raman), electronic spectroscopy, magnetism, and electrochemistry. Offered: A.
Chemistry^Current Problems in Inorganic Chemistry Current Problems in Inorganic Chemistry CHEM 510 Current Problems in Inorganic Chemistry (3, max. 9)Primarily for doctoral candidates in inorganic chemistry. Current topics (e.g., bioinorganic, advanced organometallic, materials and solid state, advanced inorganic spectroscopy). See department for instructor and topics during any particular quarter. Offered: Sp.
Chemistry^Current Problems in Analytical Chemistry Current Problems in Analytical Chemistry CHEM 520 Current Problems in Analytical Chemistry (3, max. 9)Primarily for doctoral candidates in analytical chemistry. Current topics (e.g., flow injection analysis, mass spectrometry, and advanced radiochemistry). See department for instructor and topics during any particular quarter. Offered: AWSp.
Chemistry^Atomic and Molecular Analytical Spectroscopy Atomic and Molecular Analytical Spectroscopy CHEM 522 Atomic and Molecular Analytical Spectroscopy (3)Quantitative analysis of atomic and molecular species, using all forms of electromagnetic radiation, electrons, and gaseous ions.
Chemistry^Geochemical Cycles Geochemical Cycles CHEM 523 Geochemical Cycles (4)Descriptive, quantitative aspects of earth as biogeochemical system. Study of equilibria, transport processes, chemical kinetics, biological processes; their application to carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, other elemental cycles. Stability of biogeochemical systems; nature of human perturbations of their dynamics.
Chemistry^Chemical Separation Techniques Chemical Separation Techniques CHEM 529 Chemical Separation Techniques (3)Introduction to modern separation techniques such as gas chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography, electrophoresis, and field flow fractionation. Offered: Sp.
Chemistry^Advanced Organic Chemistry Advanced Organic Chemistry CHEM 530 Advanced Organic Chemistry (3)Fundamental aspects of organic structures and transformations. Structure and basicity of carbanions, substitution reactions, elimination reactions, nucleophilic addition and addition/elimination reactions, condensation reactions, structure and rearrangements of carbocations, electrophilic addition, electrophilic substitutions, neighboring group effects.
Chemistry^Advanced Organic Chemistry Advanced Organic Chemistry CHEM 531 Advanced Organic Chemistry (3)Synthetic organic chemistry. Discussion of practical methods for the synthesis of complex organic molecules with an emphasis on strategy and the control of stereochemistry.
Chemistry^Advanced Organic Chemistry Advanced Organic Chemistry CHEM 532 Advanced Organic Chemistry (3)Chemical biology. Application of chemical methods to the study of biological processes that occur in cells.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology Chemical Biology CHEM 536 Chemical Biology (3)Covers protein structure and forces that hold proteins together; mechanistic enzymology, basics of how enzymes work as catalysts; protein-ligand binding, both theory and measurement approaches; fundamentals of protein analysis including gels and immunological methods; activity-based protein profiling. Includes DNA synthesis along with methods for directed DNA mutagenesis and recombinant protein production. Offered: W.
Chemistry^CURRENT PROBLEMS IN ORGANIC CHEMISTRY CURRENT PROBLEMS IN ORGANIC CHEMISTRY CHEM 540 CURRENT PROBLEMS IN ORGANIC CHEMISTRY (1-3, max. 12)
Chemistry^Introduction to Quantum Chemistry Introduction to Quantum Chemistry CHEM 550 Introduction to Quantum Chemistry (3)Origins and basic postulates of quantum mechanics, solutions to single-particle problems, angular momentum and hydrogenic wave functions, matrix methods, perturbation theory, variational methods.
Chemistry^Introduction to Quantum Chemistry Introduction to Quantum Chemistry CHEM 551 Introduction to Quantum Chemistry (3)Electronic structure of many-electron atoms and molecules, vibration and rotation levels of molecules, effects of particle exchange, angular momentum and group theory, spectroscopic selection rules.
Chemistry^Statistical Mechanics Statistical Mechanics CHEM 552 Statistical Mechanics (3)General theorems of statistical mechanics, relation of the equilibrium theory to classical thermodynamics, quantum statistics, theory of imperfect gases, lattice statistics and simple cooperative phenomena, lattice dynamics and theory of solids, liquids, solutions, and polymers, time-dependent phenomena and mechanisms of interaction.
Chemistry^Statistical Mechanics Statistical Mechanics CHEM 553 Statistical Mechanics (3)General theorems of statistical mechanics, relation of the equilibrium theory to classical thermodynamics, quantum statistics, theory of imperfect gases, lattice statistics and simple cooperative phenomena, lattice dynamics and theory of solids, liquids, solutions, and polymers, time-dependent phenomena and mechanisms of interaction.
Chemistry^Current Problems in Physical Chemistry Current Problems in Physical Chemistry CHEM 560 Current Problems in Physical Chemistry (1-3, max. 12)Primarily for doctoral candidates in physical chemistry. A discussion of topics selected from active research fields. See department for instructor and the topic during any particular quarter.
Chemistry^Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers CHEM 564 Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers (3)Physical and material concepts determining properties of organic electronic and photonic materials. Discusses electronic structure, physico-chemical characterization, and device application. Includes introduction of electronic band structure of polymers, electrically conducting polymers; organic nonlinear optical electroluminescent materials; polymer optical fibers; tow-photon absorption materials for 3-D microfabrication. Offered: jointly with MSE 560; W.
Chemistry^Computations in Chemistry Computations in Chemistry CHEM 565 Computations in Chemistry (3)Covers computer calculations applied to problems in chemistry. Introduces to numerical methods and algorithms for calculating classical dynamics, quantum wavefunctions, wavepacket propagation, and chemical kinetics. Uses computer programs for calculating electronic wavefunctions, molecular conformations, and simulations of liquids and solids. Offered: Sp.
Chemistry^Preparation for Second-Year Exam Preparation for Second-Year Exam CHEM 581 Preparation for Second-Year Exam (3-, max. 9)Preparation for examination. Open only to students accepted for doctoral work in chemistry, in their second year of study. Offered: AWSp.
Chemistry^Electronic Structure and Application of Materials Electronic Structure and Application of Materials CHEM 585 Electronic Structure and Application of Materials (3) NWIntroduction to electronic structure theory of solids from a chemical perspective, including band theory and the free electron model, with an emphasis in the second half of the quarter on modern trends in research in inorganic materials in the bulk and on the nanometer scale. Offered: W.
Chemistry^Seminar in General Chemistry Seminar in General Chemistry CHEM 590 Seminar in General Chemistry (1, max. 18)For chemistry graduate students only. Offered: AWSp.
Chemistry^Seminar in Inorganic Chemistry Seminar in Inorganic Chemistry CHEM 591 Seminar in Inorganic Chemistry (1, max. 18)For chemistry graduate students only. Offered: AWSp.
Chemistry^Seminar in Analytical Chemistry Seminar in Analytical Chemistry CHEM 592 Seminar in Analytical Chemistry (1, max. 18)For chemistry graduate students only. Offered: AWSp.
Chemistry^Seminar in Organic Chemistry Seminar in Organic Chemistry CHEM 593 Seminar in Organic Chemistry (1, max. 18)For chemistry graduate students only. Offered: AWSp.
Chemistry^Seminar in Physical Chemistry Seminar in Physical Chemistry CHEM 595 Seminar in Physical Chemistry (1, max. 18)
Chemistry^Nanotechnology Seminar Nanotechnology Seminar CHEM 597 Nanotechnology Seminar (1, max. 18)Emphasizes frontier research in nanoscience and nanotechnology and on intellectual interactions within the nanotechnology community. Presented by experts in the field, with most being from other institutions.
Education^Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers EDUC 170 Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers (5) NWCovers basic concepts of numbers and operations. Emphasizes problem solving, communication of mathematical ideas, and analysis of sources of difficultly in learning/teaching these concepts. Offered: WSp.
Education^Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society EDUC 200 Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society (3-5, max. 15) I&S C. DAVIS, J. WILLIAMSON-LOTTCritical examination of current research and practice in education, learning, and society. Offered: AWSpS.
Education^Selected Readings - An Introduction to Education in the United States Selected Readings - An Introduction to Education in the United States EDUC 205 Selected Readings - An Introduction to Education in the United States (3-5, max. 15) I&S C. DAVIS, J. WILLIAMSON-LOTTIntroduction to the United States education system, including the theoretical concepts of learning and historical framework that guide practice, policy, and teacher preparation. Explores issues and questions pertaining to United States schools through directed readings, dialogue, individual projects, and group projects. Offered: AWSpS.
Education^Education and the Playfield Education and the Playfield EDUC 210 Education and the Playfield (3) I&SExamines the intersection of education and sport from early childhood to college experiences. Explores educational themes related to physical development, sport's influence on individual and community development, access to physical activities, equity and inclusion within the sports environment, and the role of sports in social change.
Education^The Dream Project: Introduction to Mentoring Strategies The Dream Project: Introduction to Mentoring Strategies EDUC 260 The Dream Project: Introduction to Mentoring Strategies (1, max. 8) I&S Taylor, TwitchellIntroduces mentoring strategies and topics related to social mobility and educational access. Supports students' mentorship of high school students on college readiness and access to higher education. Corequisite: EDUC 369. Offered: AWSp.
Education^Education, Learning, and Society Colloquium Education, Learning, and Society Colloquium EDUC 299 Education, Learning, and Society Colloquium (1)Provides a common learning experience where students learn from researchers and practicing educators about current pedagogical projects and theories. Fosters self-reflexive projects to build understanding of learning pathways. Offered: AWSp.
Education^Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society EDUC 300 Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society (1-5, max. 20)Critical examination of current research and practice in education, learning, and society.
Education^Introductory Practice in Community Service Activity Introductory Practice in Community Service Activity EDUC 301 Introductory Practice in Community Service Activity (1-10, max. 10)Observation and participation in a variety of activities in a K-12 classroom. Placement made according to participant interests and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions are required. Offered: AWSp.
Education^The Purpose of Public Schools in a Democracy The Purpose of Public Schools in a Democracy EDUC 305 The Purpose of Public Schools in a Democracy (5) I&SExplores issues and questions pertaining to public schools in a democratic society through directed readings, dialogue, individual and group projects designed to engage students with a series of crucial issues in public schools. Offered: AWSp.
Education^Current Issues in Education Current Issues in Education EDUC 310 Current Issues in Education (5, max. 20) I&SCovers a current issue and provides the opportunity to read and discuss educational issues with other students and faculty and to learn of opportunities in the College of Education programs. Offered: AWSp.
Education^Issues and Trends of Educational Theory, Research, and Practice Issues and Trends of Educational Theory, Research, and Practice EDUC 315 Issues and Trends of Educational Theory, Research, and Practice (3-5, max. 15) I&S C. DAVIS, J. WILLIAMSON-LOTTExamines issues and trends in the past and present that have influenced or may have the potential to influence the field of education. Research, discussion, and reading assignments enable students to analyze and understand topics such as charter schools, accountability, privatization, national standards, and other topics. Offered: AWSpS.
Education^The Dream Project: Mentoring and Education Policy The Dream Project: Mentoring and Education Policy EDUC 360 The Dream Project: Mentoring and Education Policy (1, max. 8) I&SDiscusses policy approaches to social mobility and educational access and supports development of communication and mentoring skills gained in EDUC 260. Supports students' mentorship of high school students on college readiness and access to higher education. Corequisite: EDUC 369. Offered: AWSp.
Education^The Dream Project: Special Topics The Dream Project: Special Topics EDUC 361 The Dream Project: Special Topics (1, max. 8) I&S Taylor, TwitchellProvides discussion and exploration of a single topic related to social mobility and access to higher education. Designed for students who have already completed EDUC or EDUC 360 who wish to examine a topic more closely. Corequisite: EDUC 369. Offered: AWSpS.
Education^The Dream Project: High School Visits - Field Experience The Dream Project: High School Visits - Field Experience EDUC 369 The Dream Project: High School Visits - Field Experience (1, max. 8) Taylor, TwitchellInvolves weekly tracel to local high schools, menoring low-income or first-generation juniors and seniors through the college readiness and admissions process. Corequisite: either EDUC 260, EDUC 360, or EDUC 361. Offered: AWSpS.
Education^Practicum in Community Service Activity Practicum in Community Service Activity EDUC 401 Practicum in Community Service Activity (1-18, max. 20) I&STutoring and teaching experiences in a school or community service organization. Placement made according to participant interests and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions are required. Offered: AWSp.
Education^Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Primary Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Primary EDUC 402 Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Primary (1-18, max. 20)Tutoring and teaching experiences in a primary school setting (grades K-3). Placements made according to participant's interest and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions.
Education^Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Intermediate Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Intermediate EDUC 403 Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Intermediate (1-18, max. 20)Tutoring and teaching experiences in an intermediate school setting (grades 4-8). Placements made according to participant's interest and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions.
Education^Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Secondary Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Secondary EDUC 404 Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Secondary (1-18, max. 20)Tutoring and teaching experiences in an intermediate school setting (grades 6-12). Placements made according to participant's interest and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions.
Education^Advanced Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management Advanced Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management EDUC 502 Advanced Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management (1-18, max. 20)In-depth classroom practicum experiences to certificated teachers working on additional endorsements. Arrangements must be made prior to enrolling with an adviser in the Teacher Education Office. Offered: AWSpS.
Education^Capstone Experience Capstone Experience EDUC 750 Capstone Experience (2-10, max. 10)Provides advanced opportunities to integrate theory and practice through a capstone learning and research experience.
Education^Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone EDUC 801 Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone (*-)
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy Introduction to Philosophy PHIL 100 Introduction to Philosophy (5) I&S C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL, A. WOODYMajor philosophical questions relating to such matters as the existence of God, the foundations of knowledge, the nature of reality, and the nature of morality. Approach may be either historical or topical. Offered: AWSpS.
Philosophy^Contemporary Moral Problems Contemporary Moral Problems PHIL 102 Contemporary Moral Problems (5) VLPA/I&S M. BLAKEPhilosophical consideration of some of the main moral problems of modern society and civilization, such as abortion, euthanasia, war, and capital punishment. Topics vary. Offered: AWSpS.
Philosophy^Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy PHIL 110 Introduction to Social and Political Philosophy (5) I&SAn introduction to political theories such as conservatism, liberalism, and socialism and their treatment of select social issues.
Philosophy^Philosophical Issues in the Law Philosophical Issues in the Law PHIL 114 Philosophical Issues in the Law (5) I&S R. MOOREAnalysis and critical assessment of various philosophical issues in law and legal reasoning. Material drawn from actual law cases, as well as writings by contemporary philosophers of law and lawyers. Topics include criminal responsibility, civil disobedience, abortion, enforcement of morals. Special legal or philosophical training not required.
Philosophy^Practical Reasoning Practical Reasoning PHIL 115 Practical Reasoning (5) I&S, QSR LeeIntroduction to logic emphasizing concepts and methods useful for practical analysis of arguments in everyday contexts; meaning, syllogisms, logical diagrams, inductive and statistical inference, informal fallacies, argument structure, perhaps some beginning symbolic logic. Offered: AWSpS.
Philosophy^Introduction to Logic Introduction to Logic PHIL 120 Introduction to Logic (5) I&S/NW, QSR C. MAYO-WILSON, C. WELLERElementary symbolic logic. The development, application, and theoretical properties of an artificial symbolic language designed to provide a clear representation of the logical structure of deductive arguments. Offered: AWSpS.
Philosophy^Why Do We Believe in Quarks, Evolution, and Other Crazy Things? Perspectives on Science, Reason, and Reality Why Do We Believe in Quarks, Evolution, and Other Crazy Things? Perspectives on Science, Reason, and Reality PHIL 160 Why Do We Believe in Quarks, Evolution, and Other Crazy Things? Perspectives on Science, Reason, and Reality (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSONStudy of how scientific theories are justified and why they are accepted, using selected examples from the history of science.
Philosophy^Topics in Philosophy Topics in Philosophy PHIL 200 Topics in Philosophy (3-5, max. 10) I&SA study of philosophical topics at the introductory level. The content of the course is entirely at the discretion of the instructor.
Philosophy^Philosophy for Children Philosophy for Children PHIL 205 Philosophy for Children (5) I&S J. LONEIntroduction to the methods of "doing" philosophy with young people. Stresses the development of a community of inquiry in which budding philosophers are encouraged to ask their own relevant questions, develop views and articulate reasons for them, and to listen and learn from one another.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Feminism Philosophy of Feminism PHIL 206 Philosophy of Feminism (5) I&S, DIVPhilosophical analysis of the concepts and assumptions central to feminism. Theoretical positions within the feminist movement; view of the ideal society, goals and strategies of the movement, intersections of the sex-gender system with other systems of oppression. Offered: jointly with GWSS 206/POL S 212.
Philosophy^Issues of Global Justice Issues of Global Justice PHIL 207 Issues of Global Justice (5) I&S M. BLAKE, J. MAYERFELD, W. TALBOTTIntroduces issues of global justice. Topics include: global poverty and aid, immigration, transnational governance, gender in global relations, climate change, and cultural relativism. Offered: jointly with POL S 207/VALUES 207.
Philosophy^Introduction to Ethics Introduction to Ethics PHIL 240 Introduction to Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S S. GARDINER, J. ROBERTS, W. TALBOTTCritical introduction to various philosophical views of the basis and presuppositions of morality and moral knowledge. Critical introduction to various types of normative ethical theory, including utilitarian, deontological, and virtue theories.
Philosophy^Topics in Ethics Topics in Ethics PHIL 241 Topics in Ethics (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&SIntroduction to ethics through in-depth study of one or more selected topics (e.g., limits of moral community, animal rights, moral education, and freedom). Topics vary.
Philosophy^Introduction to Medical Ethics Introduction to Medical Ethics PHIL 242 Introduction to Medical Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S S. GOERINGIntroduction to ethics, primarily for first- and second-year students. Emphasizes philosophical thinking and writing through an in-depth study of philosophical issues arising in the practice of medicine. Examines the issues of medical ethics from a patient's point of view.
Philosophy^Environmental Ethics Environmental Ethics PHIL 243 Environmental Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S L. NICHOLSFocuses on some of the philosophical questions that arise in connection with environmental studies. Topics to be considered include: the ideological roots of current issues, values and the natural world, public policy and risk assessment, intergenerational justice, and social change. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 243.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Religion Introduction to Philosophy of Religion PHIL 267 Introduction to Philosophy of Religion (5) I&SConsideration of the sources of religious ideas and practices, the main kinds of religious views and the problems they raise, and the different forms that spirituality can take. Issues concerning the relations of religion to science and morality also treated.
Philosophy^Intermediate Topics in Philosophy Intermediate Topics in Philosophy PHIL 301 Intermediate Topics in Philosophy (3-5, max. 10) I&SPhilosophical topics at the intermediate level. Content varies each quarter, depending on instructor.
Philosophy^Justice Across Disciplinary Boundaries Justice Across Disciplinary Boundaries PHIL 307 Justice Across Disciplinary Boundaries (5) I&S W. TALBOTTWhat is justice? One of the oldest questions in philosophy and also one of the most current. A multi-disciplinary approach to understanding justice.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Crime and Punishment Philosophy of Crime and Punishment PHIL 314 Philosophy of Crime and Punishment (5) I&S R. MOOREExamination of philosophical theories regarding criminal habits and punishment and the philosophical problems connected with specific topics in criminal law. Examines proper subject matter of criminal law (drug use, pornography, euthanasia); limits of criminal sanctions; crime and privilege (corporate crime, white-collar crime, blackmail); justifications for punishment; mercy; and execution.
Philosophy^Ancient Philosophy Ancient Philosophy PHIL 320 Ancient Philosophy (5) I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLERSurvey of ancient Greek philosophy, beginning with the pre-Socratics and proceeding on through Plato to Aristotle.
Philosophy^Modern Philosophy Modern Philosophy PHIL 322 Modern Philosophy (5) I&S C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL, C. WELLERExamination of metaphysical and epistemological problems from the works of Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant.
Philosophy^Nineteenth-Century Philosophy Nineteenth-Century Philosophy PHIL 325 Nineteenth-Century Philosophy (5) I&S C. MARSHALL
Philosophy^History of Ancient Political Philosophy History of Ancient Political Philosophy PHIL 330 History of Ancient Political Philosophy (5) I&S J. ROBERTSPolitical philosophy of fourth- and fifth-century Greece, especially the Sophists, Plato, and Aristotle, stressing the connection between the political philosophy and the underlying philosophical system of each philosopher.
Philosophy^History of Modern Political Philosophy History of Modern Political Philosophy PHIL 332 History of Modern Political Philosophy (5) I&S M. BLAKE, W. TALBOTTExamination of major political philosophies from the sixteenth century to the nineteenth century, with attention to the underlying philosophical methods and foundations.
Philosophy^Plato's Republic Plato's Republic PHIL 335 Plato's Republic (5) VLPA/I&SDesigned especially for philosophy majors, but open to non-majors. Intensive study of Plato's masterpiece.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Human Rights Philosophy of Human Rights PHIL 338 Philosophy of Human Rights (5) I&S W. TALBOTTTheories of human rights and the bearing of these theories on issues of public policy such as legitimacy of war and terrorism, economic justice, and whether future generations have rights.
Philosophy^History of Ancient Ethics History of Ancient Ethics PHIL 340 History of Ancient Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLERDevelopment of moral thought from Socrates through the Stoics. Particular emphasis on the ethical writings of Plato and Aristotle.
Philosophy^History of Modern Ethics History of Modern Ethics PHIL 342 History of Modern Ethics (5) VLPA/I&S M. ROSENTHAL, C. WELLERDevelopment of moral thought from Hobbes through Nietzsche, with particular emphasis on the ethical writings of Hume, Kant, and John Stuart Mill.
Philosophy^Ethics and the Environment Ethics and the Environment PHIL 343 Ethics and the Environment (5) I&S L. NICHOLSAdvanced introduction to environmental ethics, with an emphasis on nonanthropocentric value theory.
Philosophy^History of Recent Ethics History of Recent Ethics PHIL 344 History of Recent Ethics (5) VLPA/I&SStudy of major ethical writings in the twentieth century, with principal emphasis on the Anglo-American tradition.
Philosophy^Moral Issues of Life and Death Moral Issues of Life and Death PHIL 345 Moral Issues of Life and Death (5) VLPA/I&S S. GOERINGExamination of such topics as war and murder, famine relief, capital punishment, high-risk technologies, abortion, suicide, and the rights of future generations.
Philosophy^Personal Values and Human Good Personal Values and Human Good PHIL 346 Personal Values and Human Good (5) I&S S. GOERINGExamination of the idea of a good human life. Emphases differ from year to year. Typical topics include happiness and prudence, rationality and life plans, personal values and the meaning of life, autonomy and false consciousness, self-respect and self-esteem, honesty and self-deception, faith and "vital lies."
Philosophy^Philosophy in Literature Philosophy in Literature PHIL 347 Philosophy in Literature (5) VLPA/I&SStudy of philosophical ideas expressed in works of literature.
Philosophy^Introduction to Epistemology Introduction to Epistemology PHIL 350 Introduction to Epistemology (5) I&S C. MAYO-WILSON, W. TALBOTTNature, definition, and possibility of knowledge.
Philosophy^Introduction to Metaphysics Introduction to Metaphysics PHIL 356 Introduction to Metaphysics (5) I&SIntroductory examination of some of the main problems in metaphysics, such as the nature of truth and reality, the metaphysical status of properties, the existence of free will.
Philosophy^Introductory Topics in Philosophy of Science Introductory Topics in Philosophy of Science PHIL 360 Introductory Topics in Philosophy of Science (5, max. 10) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODYStudy of one or more current topics in philosophy of science such as scientific realism, explanation, confirmation, causation.
Philosophy^Topics in the Philosophy of Science Topics in the Philosophy of Science PHIL 362 Topics in the Philosophy of Science (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSONCritical study of nature of scientific knowledge, emphasizing the role of evidence in several different sciences. Topics include accounts of scientific methods; the relation of theory to observation; how theories change; and the nature of the confirmation and falsification of hypotheses and theories. Offered: Sp.
Philosophy^Introduction to the Philosophy of Mind Introduction to the Philosophy of Mind PHIL 363 Introduction to the Philosophy of Mind (5) I&S C. LEEVarious theories of the nature of mind, the relationship between mind and body, the self, introspection, and knowledge of other minds.
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy of Mathematics Introduction to Philosophy of Mathematics PHIL 373 Introduction to Philosophy of Mathematics (5) I&SIntroduction to some of the main issues in philosophy of mathematics: to what degree are mathematical theorems justified by rational insight, sensory experience, purely symbolic computations; what is the infinite, and how can one reason about infinite sets, spaces, and numbers without becoming entangled in contradictions.
Philosophy^Foreign Study Foreign Study PHIL 399 Foreign Study (2-5, max. 10)Upper-division philosophy studies with no direct UW equivalents, taken through UW foreign study programs.
Philosophy^Advanced Topics in Philosophy Advanced Topics in Philosophy PHIL 401 Advanced Topics in Philosophy (3-5, max. 10) I&SA study of philosophical topics at the advanced level. Topics vary.
Philosophy^Philosophical Topics in Feminism Philosophical Topics in Feminism PHIL 406 Philosophical Topics in Feminism (5) I&S, DIV S. GOERING, L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODYDetailed examination of questions raised by recent feminist scholarship in particular areas of philosophy, such as political theory, ethics, epistemology, or philosophy of science. Emphasis varies.
Philosophy^International Justice International Justice PHIL 407 International Justice (5) M. BLAKE, S. GARDINERExamines issues through investigation of the moral foundations of international politics. Issues include: What moral duties constrain the relationships between states? Is international poverty a matter of moral concern? Are we justified in preferring the interest of our fellow nations?
Philosophy^Philosophy of Diversity Philosophy of Diversity PHIL 408 Philosophy of Diversity (5) I&S, DIV M. BLAKEMust a liberal political community respect all claims made on behalf of minority cultural groups? Are there moral limits to the forms of diversity compatible with just governance? Examines modern philosophical writings on these topics.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Disability Philosophy of Disability PHIL 409 Philosophy of Disability (3) I&S, DIV S. GOERINGRethinks the non-disabled assumption at the heart of much of western moral and political philosophy. Explores concepts of autonomy, opportunity, personhood, and dependence in regard to disability. Issues may include prenatal testing and reproduction, special education, requirements of accommodation, and social and legal interpretations of disability.
Philosophy^Social Philosophy Social Philosophy PHIL 410 Social Philosophy (5) I&S W. TALBOTTAn examination of topics pertaining to social structures and institutions such as liberty, distributive justice, and human rights.
Philosophy^Justice in Health Care Justice in Health Care PHIL 411 Justice in Health Care (5) VLPA/I&S N. JECKERExamination of the ethical problem of allocating scarce medical resources. Emphasizes the fundamental principles of justice that support alternative health policies. Offered: jointly with B H 474.
Philosophy^Ethical Theory Ethical Theory PHIL 412 Ethical Theory (5) I&S N. JECKERStudies the major normative ethical theories, including both teleological and deontological approaches. Emphasizes moral philosophy during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as well as contemporary commentary. Offered: jointly with B H 402.
Philosophy^Metaethical Theory Metaethical Theory PHIL 413 Metaethical Theory (5) I&S N. JECKERStudies the major metaethical theories, including both cognitivist and noncognitivist approaches. Emphasizes moral philosophy during the twentieth century, as well as contemporary commentary. Offered: jointly with B H 404.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Law Philosophy of Law PHIL 414 Philosophy of Law (5) I&S R. MOORENature and function of law. Relation of law to morality. Legal rights, judicial reasoning.
Philosophy^Advanced Topics in Animal Welfare Advanced Topics in Animal Welfare PHIL 415 Advanced Topics in Animal Welfare (5) I&S L. NICHOLSCritical examination of issues in the philosophy of animal welfare and animal rights.
Philosophy^Ethics and Climate Change Ethics and Climate Change PHIL 416 Ethics and Climate Change (5) I&S S. GARDINER, L. NICHOLSCritical examination of the ethical issues surrounding climate change.
Philosophy^Advanced Topics in Environmental Philosophy Advanced Topics in Environmental Philosophy PHIL 417 Advanced Topics in Environmental Philosophy (5) I&S S. GARDINERCritical examination of issues in environmental philosophy. Topics vary.
Philosophy^Jewish Philosophy Jewish Philosophy PHIL 418 Jewish Philosophy (5) I&S M. ROSENTHALIntroduces the central concepts and themes of Jewish philosophy. Focuses either on debates within a particular historical period - e.g., medieval or modern; or on a topic - e.g., reactions to the Enlightenment or to the Holocaust.
Philosophy^Studies in Continental Rationalism Studies in Continental Rationalism PHIL 422 Studies in Continental Rationalism (5, max. 15) I&S C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHALStudy of one or more of the major continental rationalists: Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz.
Philosophy^Twentieth-Century Philosophy Twentieth-Century Philosophy PHIL 426 Twentieth-Century Philosophy (5) I&S C. WELLERA study of development of contemporary analytic philosophy, the revolt against idealism, and the linguistic turn in philosophy.
Philosophy^Hellenistic Philosophy Hellenistic Philosophy PHIL 430 Hellenistic Philosophy (3) I&S J. ROBERTSSurvey of the Epicurean, Stoic, and Skeptic philosophy of the Hellenistic period. Emphasis may vary.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Plato Philosophy of Plato PHIL 431 Philosophy of Plato (3, max. 6) I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLERStudy of selected middle and late dialogues.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Aristotle Philosophy of Aristotle PHIL 433 Philosophy of Aristotle (3, max. 6) I&S J. ROBERTS, C. WELLERStudy of several major Aristotelian treatises.
Philosophy^British Empiricism British Empiricism PHIL 436 British Empiricism (3) I&S C. WELLERExamination of the metaphysical and epistemological views of Locke and Berkeley, with perhaps some attention also to Hume.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Hume Philosophy of Hume PHIL 437 Philosophy of Hume (3) I&S W. TALBOTT, C. WELLERHume's analyses of knowledge, the passions, and morals.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Kant Philosophy of Kant PHIL 438 Philosophy of Kant (5) I&S C. MARSHALL, C. WELLERSystematic study of The Critique of Pure Reason.
Philosophy^Ethics Ethics PHIL 440 Ethics (5) I&S J. ROBERTS, W. TALBOTTCritical examination of the concepts and judgments of value, including an analytical treatment of the notions of good and bad, right and wrong, and obligation. Emphasis varies from quarter to quarter.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Art Philosophy of Art PHIL 445 Philosophy of Art (5) VLPA/I&S R. MOORECritical examination of various accounts of the nature of art, artistic activity, the aesthetic experience. Problems in interpretation and evaluation of works of art.
Philosophy^Development of Aesthetic Theory Development of Aesthetic Theory PHIL 446 Development of Aesthetic Theory (5) VLPA/I&S R. MOOREHistorical development of aesthetics, emphasizing such major figures as Plato, Aristotle, Hume, Kant, Hegel, and Goodman.
Philosophy^Epistemology Epistemology PHIL 450 Epistemology (5) I&S C. MAYO-WILSON, W. TALBOTTSystematic study of some of the main problems of the theory of knowledge, such as: the definition of "knowledge"; a priori knowledge; perception and knowledge of the external world; and whether knowledge has or requires a foundation. Emphasis varies from quarter to quarter.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Language Philosophy of Language PHIL 453 Philosophy of Language (5) VLPA/I&SCurrent theories of meaning, reference, predication, and related concepts. Offered: jointly with LING 476.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Medicine Philosophy of Medicine PHIL 459 Philosophy of Medicine (5) I&S N. JECKERFamiliarizes students with central issues in the philosophy of medicine. Focuses on the nature of medical knowledge, the connection between theory and observation, the meaning of medical concepts, and the relationship between theories and the world. Offered: jointly with B H 440.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Science Philosophy of Science PHIL 460 Philosophy of Science (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODYCritical study of the nature of scientific knowledge. Topics include the relation of theory to observation, the use of mathematics, how theories change, the requirements for the meaningfulness of a theory, and nature of confirmation..
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mind Philosophy of Mind PHIL 463 Philosophy of Mind (5) I&S C. LEEExamination of current theories of the nature of the mind and mental processes.
Philosophy^Philosophical Issues in the Cognitive Sciences Philosophical Issues in the Cognitive Sciences PHIL 464 Philosophical Issues in the Cognitive Sciences (5) I&S/NW C. LEEPhilosophical problems connected with research in psychology, artificial intelligence, and other cognitive sciences. Topics vary. Readings from both philosophical and scientific literature. Accessible to nonphilosophers with suitable interests and backgrounds.
Philosophy^Philosophy of History Philosophy of History PHIL 465 Philosophy of History (3) I&S M. WYLIEAnalyses of basic concepts employed in historical interpretation, and study of some of the principal philosophers of history, such as Plato, Saint Augustine, Hegel, Marx, Spengler, Toynbee.
Philosophy^Philosophy of the Social Sciences Philosophy of the Social Sciences PHIL 466 Philosophy of the Social Sciences (5) I&S L. HANKINSON NELSON, W. TALBOTT, M. WYLIEExamination of fundamental issues in the foundations, methodology, and interpretation of the social sciences. Topics include value orientation and objectivity, methodological individualism, functionalism, reductionism, and the status of idealized models, including models involving idealized conceptions of individual rationality. Emphasis varies from quarter to quarter.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Religion Philosophy of Religion PHIL 467 Philosophy of Religion (5) I&S M. ROSENTHALStudy of selected topics and problems in the philosophy of religion, such as: arguments for the existence of God; the problem of evil; atheism; faith; religious experience and revelation; the attributes of God; miracles; immortality; and the relation between religion and morality. Readings from historical and contemporary authors.
Philosophy^Intermediate Logic Intermediate Logic PHIL 470 Intermediate Logic (5) I&S/NW, QSRAn introduction to the concepts and methods of metatheory and their application to the sentential calculus.
Philosophy^Advanced Logic Advanced Logic PHIL 471 Advanced Logic (5) I&S/NWStudy of the first-order predicate calculus with identity and function symbols. Consistency, soundness, completeness, compactness. Skolem-Lowenheim theorem. Formalized theories.
Philosophy^Axiomatic Set Theory Axiomatic Set Theory PHIL 472 Axiomatic Set Theory (5) I&S/NWDevelopment of axiomatic set theory up to and including the consistency of the Axiom of Choice and Continuum Hypothesis with the Zermelo-Fraenkel Axioms.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mathematics Philosophy of Mathematics PHIL 473 Philosophy of Mathematics (5) I&S/NWStudy of the traditional accounts of the nature of mathematical entities and mathematical truth given by logicism, intuitionism, and formalism, and the impact of Godel's incompleteness theorems on these accounts.
Philosophy^Modal Logic Modal Logic PHIL 474 Modal Logic (5) I&S/NWNotions of necessity and possibility, using the classical systems T, S4, and S5, and the syntax and the semantics (Kripke models) of these systems.
Philosophy^Semantics II Semantics II PHIL 479 Semantics II (3) VLPA/I&S/NW T. OGIHARAFormal characterization of linguistic meaning. Emphasis on nature and purpose of formal semantics and on its relation to formal syntax.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Biology Philosophy of Biology PHIL 481 Philosophy of Biology (5) I&S/NW L. HANKINSON NELSONStudy of several current topics in philosophy of biology, which may include the logical structure of evolutionary theory, fitness, taxonomy, the concept of a living thing, reductionism, the concept of a biological species, evolutionary explanations, and philosophical consequences of sociology.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Physical Science Philosophy of Physical Science PHIL 482 Philosophy of Physical Science (5, max. 10) I&S/NW A. WOODYStudy of philosophical issues raised by theories in physics or chemistry, such as whether space (time) is a substance, how causation and locality are treated in quantum mechanics, temporal anistropy and time travel, the nature of a field of force, the reduction of chemistry to physics.
Philosophy^Induction and Probability Induction and Probability PHIL 483 Induction and Probability (5) I&S/NWIntroduction to current accounts of evidence and observation, the confirmation of scientific theories, the logic of inductive reasoning, and the metaphysics and epistemology of chance. High school-level math used. Specific topics vary from year to year.
Philosophy^Reading in Philosophy Reading in Philosophy PHIL 484 Reading in Philosophy (1-5, max. 15)Individual study of selected philosophical works.
Philosophy^Advanced Topics in Epistemology Advanced Topics in Epistemology PHIL 490 Advanced Topics in Epistemology (5, max. 15) I&S W. TALBOTTIntensive study of a particular topic or area in epistemology.
Philosophy^Philosophy for Children Practicum Philosophy for Children Practicum PHIL 495 Philosophy for Children Practicum (3) I&S S. GOERING, J. LONEExplores methods for introducing philosophy to K-12 students, focusing on ways to establish "communities of philosophical inquiry." Students learn how to inspire philosophical discussions with pre-college students, and work in pairs with the instructor to lead philosophy sessions in the seminar and in local schools. Offered: A.
Philosophy^Undergraduate Internship Undergraduate Internship PHIL 498 Undergraduate Internship (1-5, max. 10)Independent fieldwork under the supervision of a faculty member. Individual experiences vary but could include an off-campus practicum or being trained as study group leader or tutor. Offered: AWSp.
Philosophy^Proseminar in Philosophy Proseminar in Philosophy PHIL 500 Proseminar in Philosophy (5)Introduces incoming graduate students to topics representative of the field and the faculty's interest. Each class session is devoted to a separate topic taught by a different member of the faculty. In addition to reading and short written assignments, students prepare a term paper on a topic presented. Offered: A.
Philosophy^Seminar in Teaching Philosophy Seminar in Teaching Philosophy PHIL 505 Seminar in Teaching Philosophy (1, max. 10)First quarter: seminar on topics of importance to a graduate student teaching two quiz sections of a large lecture course. Second quarter: focus on helping student prepare to teach own course.
Philosophy^Seminar in Social Philosophy Seminar in Social Philosophy PHIL 510 Seminar in Social Philosophy (5, max. 20) W. TALBOTT
Philosophy^Seminar in Legal Philosophy Seminar in Legal Philosophy PHIL 514 Seminar in Legal Philosophy (5, max. 20) R. MOORE
Philosophy^Seminar in Ancient Philosophy Seminar in Ancient Philosophy PHIL 520 Seminar in Ancient Philosophy (5, max. 20) J. ROBERTS, C. WELLER
Philosophy^Seminar in Modern Philosophy Seminar in Modern Philosophy PHIL 522 Seminar in Modern Philosophy (5, max. 20) C. MARSHALL, M. ROSENTHAL, C. WELLER
Philosophy^Seminar in Recent Philosophy Seminar in Recent Philosophy PHIL 526 Seminar in Recent Philosophy (5, max. 20) C. WELLER
Philosophy^Philosophy of Human Rights Philosophy of Human Rights PHIL 538 Philosophy of Human Rights (5, max. 20) W. TALBOTT
Philosophy^Seminar in Ethics Seminar in Ethics PHIL 540 Seminar in Ethics (5, max. 20) S. GOERING, J. ROBERTS, W. TALBOTT
Philosophy^Seminar in the Philosophy of Art Seminar in the Philosophy of Art PHIL 545 Seminar in the Philosophy of Art (5, max. 20) R. MOORE
Philosophy^Seminar in Epistemology Seminar in Epistemology PHIL 550 Seminar in Epistemology (5, max. 20) C. MAYO-WILSON, W. TALBOTT
Philosophy^Seminar in Metaphysics Seminar in Metaphysics PHIL 556 Seminar in Metaphysics (5, max. 20)
Philosophy^Seminar in the Philosophy of Science Seminar in the Philosophy of Science PHIL 560 Seminar in the Philosophy of Science (5, max. 20) L. HANKINSON NELSON, A. WOODY
Philosophy^Seminar in the Philosophy of Mind Seminar in the Philosophy of Mind PHIL 563 Seminar in the Philosophy of Mind (5, max. 20) C. LEE
Philosophy^Seminar in Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences Seminar in Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences PHIL 564 Seminar in Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences (5)Examines philosophical questions raised in and by cognitive sciences, including the nature of explanation, the role of models in explanation, and debates about reductionism versus pluralism in the face of diverse research paradigms.
Philosophy^Seminar in the Philosophy of History Seminar in the Philosophy of History PHIL 565 Seminar in the Philosophy of History (5, max. 20)
Philosophy^Seminar in Philosophy of the Social Sciences Seminar in Philosophy of the Social Sciences PHIL 566 Seminar in Philosophy of the Social Sciences (5, max. 20) C. LEE, M. WYLIE
Philosophy^Seminar in Logic Seminar in Logic PHIL 570 Seminar in Logic (5, max. 20)
Philosophy^Meta-archaeology: Philosophy and Archaeology Meta-archaeology: Philosophy and Archaeology PHIL 574 Meta-archaeology: Philosophy and Archaeology (4) M. WYLIEExamines philosophical issues raised in and by archaeology, including theories of explanation and model building, analyses of evidential reasoning and hermeneutic interpretation, debates about ideals of objectivity and about science and values. Offered: jointly with ARCHY 574.
Philosophy^Reading in Philosophy Reading in Philosophy PHIL 584 Reading in Philosophy (1-5, max. 12)Intensive reading in philosophical literature.
Philosophy^Contemporary Analytic Philosophy Contemporary Analytic Philosophy PHIL 587 Contemporary Analytic Philosophy (5, max. 20)
Philosophy^Philosophy for Children Practicum Philosophy for Children Practicum PHIL 595 Philosophy for Children Practicum (3) S. GOERING, J. LONEExplores methods for introducing philosophy to K-12 students, focusing on ways to establish "communities of philosophical inquiry." Students learn how to inspire philosophical discussions with pre-college students, and work in pairs with the instructor to lead philosophy sessions in the seminar and in local schools. Offered: A.
Biology^Introductory Biology Introductory Biology BIOL 100 Introductory Biology (5) NWDevelops an awareness of science by studying basic biological principles and their application to problems of humans and society in the contexts of special topics or themes, which vary quarter to quarter. For non-science majors only.
Biology^Introductory Biology Seminar Introductory Biology Seminar BIOL 106 Introductory Biology Seminar (1/3, max. 6) NWFocuses on current topics in biology. Topics vary from quarter to quarter. Designed to enhance learning skills of students who intend to take BIOL 180/BIOL 200/BIOL 220 and major in one of the biological sciences.
Biology^Evolution and Human Behavior Evolution and Human Behavior BIOL 108 Evolution and Human Behavior (3) NWIntroduction to evolution by natural selection, examining the light it can throw on human biology and behavior in such areas as the nature of sex differences, sexual conflict, and conflict between parents and children. Does not fulfill major requirements. Offered: jointly with BIO A 100.
Biology^Freshman Discovery Seminar in Biology Freshman Discovery Seminar in Biology BIOL 110 Freshman Discovery Seminar in Biology (5) NWIntroduces incoming freshman to research basics and scholarly inquiry skills used in the study of biology.
Biology^Astrobiology: Life in the Universe Astrobiology: Life in the Universe BIOL 114 Astrobiology: Life in the Universe (5) NW R. BUICK, D. CATLING, V. MEADOWS, W. SULLIVANIntroduction to the new science of astrobiology, study of the origin and evolution of life on Earth, and the search for microbial and intelligent life elsewhere in the Universe. Designed for non-science, liberal arts majors. Offered: jointly with ASTBIO 115/ASTR 115/ESS 115/OCEAN 115.
Biology^Survey of Physiology Survey of Physiology BIOL 118 Survey of Physiology (5) NWHuman physiology, for nonmajors and health sciences students. Offered: AWSpS.
Biology^Elementary Physiology Laboratory Elementary Physiology Laboratory BIOL 119 Elementary Physiology Laboratory (1) NW
Biology^Current Controversies in Biology Current Controversies in Biology BIOL 120 Current Controversies in Biology (2-5, max. 6) NWExplores a current controversial topic in biology, stressing information needed by the general public to make informed personal, political, and ethical decisions relating to this topic.
Biology^Introductory Biology Introductory Biology BIOL 180 Introductory Biology (5) NWMendelian genetics, evolution, biodiversity of life forms, ecology, and conservation biology. Open to all students interested in biology whether intending to major in the biological sciences, enroll in preprofessional programs, or fulfill a Natural World requirement. First course in a three-quarter series (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220). Offered: AWSpS.
Biology^Introductory Biology Introductory Biology BIOL 200 Introductory Biology (5) NWFor students intending to take advanced courses in the biological sciences or enroll in preprofessional programs. Metabolism and energetics, structure and function of biomolecules, cell structure and function, animal development. Second course in a three-quarter series (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220).
Biology^Introductory Biology Introductory Biology BIOL 220 Introductory Biology (5) NWFor students intending to take advanced courses in the biological sciences or enroll in preprofessional programs. Animal physiology, plant development and physiology. Final course in a three-quarter series (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220).
Biology^Marine Biology Marine Biology BIOL 250 Marine Biology (3/5) I&S/NWLecture-laboratory course in marine biology focusing on physical, biological, and social aspects of the marine environment. Topics include oceanography, ecology, physiology, behavior, conservation, fisheries, exploration, and activism. Weekend field trip. Honors section research project. Offered: jointly with FISH 250/OCEAN 250; AS.
Biology^The History of Life The History of Life BIOL 280 The History of Life (4) NW P. WARDFollows the history of life from its first formation including the origin of life and life's diversification from single cells through multi-celluarity. Examines fossils and DNA evidence from understanding the sequence of events and evolutionary history of life.
Biology^Study Abroad - Biology Study Abroad - Biology BIOL 293 Study Abroad - Biology (1-10, max. 10) NWFor participants in UW Study Abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major requirements without approval.
Biology^Introduction to Neuroscience Introduction to Neuroscience BIOL 300 Introduction to Neuroscience (4) NWProvides a broad introduction to the study of brain function in humans and other animals. Emphasizes how circuits within the brain process sensory information and generate complex movements. No credit if NBIO 301, NBIO 302, or BIOL 461 already taken.
Biology^Laboratory Techniques in Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory Techniques in Cell and Molecular Biology BIOL 302 Laboratory Techniques in Cell and Molecular Biology (4) NW T. IMAIZUMI, L. MARTIN-MORRISExplores the use of various cell and molecular laboratory techniques, such as PCR, cloning, gel electrophoresis, and bacterial transformation through hands-on experiments. Students produce a portfolio of techniques they have learned. Writing credit.
Biology^Science Communication: Video Storytelling in Biology Science Communication: Video Storytelling in Biology BIOL 305 Science Communication: Video Storytelling in Biology (3) VLPA/NW P. BOERSMAStudents make a short film on a biological story, concept, or theory. Includes developing a storyline, getting the shots to make compelling viewing, editing, and producing a short video.
Biology^Biology of Fishes Biology of Fishes BIOL 311 Biology of Fishes (3/5) NWCovers morphological, physiological, behavioral, and ecological diversity of fishes of the world; designed to provide a basic foundation for advanced courses in all areas of aquatic sciences. 3-credit option does not include laboratory. Offered: jointly with FISH 311; W.
Biology^Biological Impacts of Climate Change Biological Impacts of Climate Change BIOL 315 Biological Impacts of Climate Change (3) NWCovers the biological impacts of climate change, including changes in species distributions and interactions, altered phenology, and ecosystem dynamics. Discusses implications of these biological impacts for society (e.g., food security, public health, and resource management).
Biology^Plant Classification and Identification Plant Classification and Identification BIOL 317 Plant Classification and Identification (5) NW R. OLMSTEADClassification and diversity of seed plants; concepts and principles of classification, lab and field study of common plant families in Washington, and skill development for identification of species. One weekend field trip. Offered: SpS.
Biology^The Tree of Life The Tree of Life BIOL 325 The Tree of Life (4) NW S. FREEMANProvides an overview of biodiversity by focusing on key characteristics of major lineage throughout the tree of life. Explores major diversification events by analyzing changes in reproduction, energetics, cell structure, sensory systems, and adaptations to abiotic stress, and species interactions.
Biology^Landscape Plant Recognition Landscape Plant Recognition BIOL 331 Landscape Plant Recognition (3) NW S. REICHARDField recognition of important groups of woody landscape plants, emphasizing diversity at the genus and family levels. Cultivated plant nomenclature. Plant descriptive characters evident in the field with eye and hand lens. Hardiness and landscape applications. Offered: jointly with ESRM 331; Sp.
Biology^Genetics and Molecular Ecology Genetics and Molecular Ecology BIOL 340 Genetics and Molecular Ecology (5) NWApplication of molecular markers to ecology, evolution, and the management of living resources. Emphasis on understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the approach based on case studies.
Biology^Foundations in Physiology Foundations in Physiology BIOL 350 Foundations in Physiology (3) NWPhysiology core course for biological sciences majors. Analysis of basic principles of animal and plant physiology, with emphasis on cellular processes that mediate organismic processes. Serves as gateway to upper-division courses in physiology.
Biology^Foundations in Evolution and Systematics Foundations in Evolution and Systematics BIOL 354 Foundations in Evolution and Systematics (3) NWEvolution and systematics core course for biological sciences majors. Emphasizes patterns, processes, and consequences of evolutionary change. Serves as gateway to 400-level courses and seminars in evolution, population genetics, sociobiology, conservation biology, phylogenetics, and systematics.
Biology^Foundations in Molecular Cell Biology Foundations in Molecular Cell Biology BIOL 355 Foundations in Molecular Cell Biology (3) NWCell biology core course for biological sciences majors. Emphasis on molecular approaches to understand cell structure, function, and regulation, and the analysis of experimental design and data interpretation. Serves as a prerequisite to advanced 400-level cell, molecular, and developmental biology courses and seminars.
Biology^Foundations in Ecology Foundations in Ecology BIOL 356 Foundations in Ecology (3) NWEcology core course for biological sciences majors. Emphasizes understanding species interactions in biological communities and relationships of communities to environment. Serves as a prerequisite to 400-level courses and senior seminars in ecology, population, and conservation biology.
Biology^Cellular Anatomy Cellular Anatomy BIOL 360 Cellular Anatomy (4) NW ZemanRecognition of cellular and tissue structures in plants and animals with correlations to normal physiology and disease states.
Biology^Biomedical Advances and Society Biomedical Advances and Society BIOL 380 Biomedical Advances and Society (3) I&S A. SCHIVELLRecent biological advances studied in the context of our society, designed to foster critical thinking, public awareness, and policy impact. Topics may include human reproductive technologies, genetic engineering, embryonic stem cell research, and medical scanning improvements.
Biology^Evolutionary Medicine Evolutionary Medicine BIOL 385 Evolutionary Medicine (3) NW B. DUNCAN, D. EISENBERGExplores evolutionary causes of health and disease. Considers how natural selection and the legacies of our human, primate, mammalian and bacterial ancestries have shaped our biology. Topics include mental disorders, aging, cancer, diet, obesity, diabetes, infectious diseases, racism, and health differences between human groups.
Biology^Peer Facilitation - Teaching in Biology Peer Facilitation - Teaching in Biology BIOL 396 Peer Facilitation - Teaching in Biology (1-4, max. 8) NWFor undergraduates working in biology courses as peer facilitators. Peer facilitators assist with labs, lectures, and course administration and gain direct classroom experience. No independent teaching or grading. Opportunities vary by quarter and instructor.
Biology^Biology Internship Program Biology Internship Program BIOL 399 Biology Internship Program (2-12, max. 15) NW B. WIGGINSCoordinated internship in a biology-related field. Allows a structured, real world biology work experiences off-campus. All internships must be approved by instructor. Offered: AWSpS.
Biology^Experiments in Molecular Biology Experiments in Molecular Biology BIOL 400 Experiments in Molecular Biology (4) NW A. CROWE, A. SCHIVELLIntegrated reading, writing, and experimentation in molecular biology. Design and implementation of experiments using modern molecular biology techniques to address current questions in biology. Emphasizes reading and evaluating primary research literature. Includes practice in different scientific writing styles.
Biology^Advanced Cell Biology Advanced Cell Biology BIOL 401 Advanced Cell Biology (3) NWSelected topics in molecular cell biology. Strong emphasis on reading and interpreting primary research literature. Writing intensive course.
Biology^Functional Genomics Functional Genomics BIOL 402 Functional Genomics (4) NW A. PAREDEZStudents perform initial characterization of novel genes through epitope tagging and localization. Skills covered include: preparation of solutions, Genomic Database queries, PCR, electrophoresis, DNA purification, cloning, transformation, and immunofluorescence microscopy.
Biology^Physiological Mechanisms of Histology Physiological Mechanisms of Histology BIOL 403 Physiological Mechanisms of Histology (5) NW L. ZEMANDevelops recognition of cellular structures with correlations to normal physiology and disease states. Laboratory projects cover harvesting, sectioning, and mounting tissue. Includes weekly scientific papers.
Biology^Animal Physiology: Cellular Aspects Animal Physiology: Cellular Aspects BIOL 404 Animal Physiology: Cellular Aspects (3) NW H. DE LA IGLESIAExamines the physiology of membrane transport, nervous signaling, sensory systems, behavioral modulation, muscle, neuronal and endocrine integration, and circadian rhythms. Emphasis on the cellular and tissue level.
Biology^Cellular and Molecular Biology of Human Disease Cellular and Molecular Biology of Human Disease BIOL 405 Cellular and Molecular Biology of Human Disease (3) NWEmphasizes the understanding of disease mechanisms through studies of genetic and cellular basis human disease and disease models. Based on analyses of primary research articles.
Biology^Mechanisms of Animal Behavior Mechanisms of Animal Behavior BIOL 408 Mechanisms of Animal Behavior (4) NW Beecher, Brenowitz, SisnerosComparative exploration of physiological and perceptual mechanisms that control behaviors necessary for survival and reproduction in animals. Model systems discussed include animal communication, mate choice, escape behavior, learning and memory, orientation, biological rhythms, foraging behavior.
Biology^Sociobiology Sociobiology BIOL 409 Sociobiology (5) NWBiological bases of social behavior, emphasizing evolution as a paradigm. Emphasizes how to think like an evolutionary biologist, especially with regard to interest conflict. Topics are individual versus group selection, kin selection, altruism, mating systems, sexual conflict, alternate reproductive strategies, and parent/offspring conflict.
Biology^Developmental Biology Developmental Biology BIOL 411 Developmental Biology (4) NWEmbryology and subsequent development of vertebrate and invertebrate animals, including Xenopus, mammals, chicks, Drosophila, echinoderms. Morphological changes in developing animals; experimental analysis of developing systems; underlying genetic and biochemical regulation of development.
Biology^Molecular Genetics of Development Molecular Genetics of Development BIOL 413 Molecular Genetics of Development (4) NW J. PARRISHUses molecular biology, cell biology, and genetic approaches to investigate how nutrient signals influence neuron growth.
Biology^Molecular Evolution Molecular Evolution BIOL 414 Molecular Evolution (5) NWSurvey of empirical approaches to the study of molecular evolution and ecology, drawing on examples from a variety of taxa and the recent literature. Topics include DNA sequencing and systematics, fingerprinting approaches in behavioral ecology, and adaptive evolution at the molecular level.
Biology^Evolution and Development Evolution and Development BIOL 415 Evolution and Development (3) NW D. PARICHYAnalysis of intertwined developmental and evolutionary processes studied through evolution of developmental genes, proteins, and expression patterns in different organisms. Includes reading and analyzing implications for ecology evolution, and human disease.
Biology^Molecular Genetics of Plant Development Molecular Genetics of Plant Development BIOL 416 Molecular Genetics of Plant Development (3)Plant growth and development examined in molecular-genetic terms. Covers mutation, dominance, redundancy, epistasis, and key technologies for discovery of gene function as well as embryogenesis, meristem formation, flower development, and other problems in plant development.
Biology^Comparative Reproductive Physiology of Vertebrates Comparative Reproductive Physiology of Vertebrates BIOL 417 Comparative Reproductive Physiology of Vertebrates (4) NWCompares the reproductive physiology of fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Biology^Biological Clocks and Rhythms Biological Clocks and Rhythms BIOL 418 Biological Clocks and Rhythms (3) NW H. DE LA IGLESIAExamines circadian rhythms and other forms of biological rhythmicity, including annual and tidal rhythms. Includes theoretical background as well as aspects that range from the molecular and cellular basis to the ecological and evolutionary implications of biological rhythms.
Biology^Data Science for Biologists Data Science for Biologists BIOL 419 Data Science for Biologists (3) QSR B. BRUNTONExplores, analyzes, and visualizes biological data sets using scientific computing software. Focuses on the foundations of data wrangling, data analysis, and statistics, particularly the development of automated techniques that are reproducible and scalable to large data sets. Offered: Sp.
Biology^Ecological and Evolutionary Physiology of Animals Ecological and Evolutionary Physiology of Animals BIOL 421 Ecological and Evolutionary Physiology of Animals (3) NWExplores the role of physiology in the ecology and evolution of animals. Special emphasis on how physiology influences responses to environmental change.
Biology^Physiology of Plant Behavior Physiology of Plant Behavior BIOL 422 Physiology of Plant Behavior (3) NW E. VAN VOLKENBURGHAdvanced physiology seminar focusing on plant sensory mechanisms, transport and integration of information, and behavior in response to a variety of environmental stimuli.
Biology^Marine Ecological Processes Marine Ecological Processes BIOL 423 Marine Ecological Processes (3) NW E. CARRINGTONStudies the ecology of the oceans and coastal regions, emphasizing benthic communities common to the Pacific Northwest.
Biology^Plant Ecophysiology Plant Ecophysiology BIOL 424 Plant Ecophysiology (5) NW S. KIMExplores physiological mechanisms that underlie ecological observations, including how above- and below-ground microclimates develop and affect plant physiological processes. Discusses acclimation to environmental change along with species differences in physiological processes and plant's occupation of heterogeneous environments. Laboratories emphasize field measurement techniques.
Biology^Plant Physiology and Development Plant Physiology and Development BIOL 425 Plant Physiology and Development (5) NWExpanded coverage of plant growth, nutrition, metabolism, and development.
Biology^Biomechanics Biomechanics BIOL 427 Biomechanics (5) NW T. DANIELPhysical biology emphasizing a mechanical approach to ecological, evolutionary, and physiological questions. Basic principles underlying fluid and solid mechanics to explore responses of animals to flows, loads, and motions.
Biology^Sensory Neurophysiology and Ecology Sensory Neurophysiology and Ecology BIOL 428 Sensory Neurophysiology and Ecology (3) NW J. RIFFELLExamines behavioral and physiological processes within an environmental framework. Uses a synthetic approach emphasizing applications to cell biology, physiology and behavior, and biomechanics.
Biology^Marine Zoology Marine Zoology BIOL 430 Marine Zoology (5) NWSurvey of groups of invertebrate animals represented in the San Juan Archipelago; natural history, functional morphology, ecology, distribution, habitat, adaptation, trophic interrelationships, and evolution.
Biology^Marine Invertebrate Zoology Marine Invertebrate Zoology BIOL 432 Marine Invertebrate Zoology (9) NWComparative morphology and biology of marine invertebrates with emphasis on field and laboratory studies. Representatives of all major and most minor phyla are collected, observed alive, and studied in detail. Taken at Friday Harbor Laboratories. Not open for credit to students who have taken BIOL 433 or BIOL 434. Offered: S.
Biology^Marine Ecology Marine Ecology BIOL 433 Marine Ecology (5) NW J. RUESINKStudy of marine ecological processes such as recruitment, disturbance, competition, and predation, and their effects on the structure and diversity of marine communities. Weekend field trips to local intertidal habitats required.
Biology^Invertebrate Zoology Invertebrate Zoology BIOL 434 Invertebrate Zoology (5) NWComparative biology and morphology of invertebrates. Laboratory work emphasizes structures and functions. Emphasizes annelids and related worms, mollusks, and arthropods. Not open to students who have taken BIOL 430 or BIOL 432.
Biology^Research Apprenticeship in Marine Science Research Apprenticeship in Marine Science BIOL 435 Research Apprenticeship in Marine Science (15) NWImmersive quarter in research n close collaboration with one-three faculty mentors on a specific topic that varies with the apprenticeship. Students engage in laboratory or field research in marine science, involving gathering, analyzing, and communicating results as part of a research team. Offered: jointly with FHL 435/MARBIO 435; ASpS.
Biology^Herpetology Herpetology BIOL 437 Herpetology (5) NWAmphibian and reptile biology, with emphasis on evolutionary relationships, ecology, behavior, morphology, physiology, and taxonomy. Lectures emphasize major trends and mechanisms maintaining diversity in form and function. Labs cover morphology and taxonomy with emphasis on the local fauna. Weekend, camping field trips required.
Biology^Quantitative Approaches to Paleobiology, Morphology, and Systematics Quantitative Approaches to Paleobiology, Morphology, and Systematics BIOL 438 Quantitative Approaches to Paleobiology, Morphology, and Systematics (5) NWIntroduction to the principles and analytical methods in the study of paleobiology, morphology, and systematics. Topics include paleobiogeography, morphology-based phylogenetics, evolutionary rates, biodiversity curves, functional morphology, morphometrics, and paleoecology. Emphasis on application of methods using fossil and modern specimens.
Biology^General Mycology General Mycology BIOL 440 General Mycology (5) NW J. AMMIRATIGeneral survey of the fungi with emphasis on life cycles, structure, physiology, economic importance.
Biology^Trends in Land Plant Evolution Trends in Land Plant Evolution BIOL 441 Trends in Land Plant Evolution (5) NWCovers key innovations and trends during the evolution of land plants. Uses an evolution of development (evo-devo) approach that compares morphological, anatomical, developmental, and molecular traits across main evolutionary lineages of plants.
Biology^Mushrooms and Related Fungi Mushrooms and Related Fungi BIOL 442 Mushrooms and Related Fungi (5) NW J. AMMIRATIGeneral biology, ecology, and classification of mushrooms, polypores, puffballs, and other related basidiomycetes. Emphasis on Pacific Northwest species.
Biology^Evolution of Mammals and their Ancestors Evolution of Mammals and their Ancestors BIOL 443 Evolution of Mammals and their Ancestors (5) NWHighlights the evolutionary history and systematics of mammals and their ancestors. Examines fossil and modern mammal specimens from the Burke Museum collections. Required field trip.
Biology^Ornithology Ornithology BIOL 444 Ornithology (5) NWField, lecture, and laboratory study of birds from an evolutionary perspective. Emphasizes taxonomy, breeding systems, brood parasitism, appearance, molt, migration, orientation, social behavior, song, and flight. Includes Saturday and weekend field trips for which students are required to share a portion of transportation costs.
Biology^Marine Botany Marine Botany BIOL 445 Marine Botany (5) NWSurvey of plants represented in marine environments; natural history; ecology, distribution, habitat, adaptation, and trophic interrelationships. Taken at Friday Harbor laboratories.
Biology^Cell and Molecular Techniques in Algal Biology Cell and Molecular Techniques in Algal Biology BIOL 446 Cell and Molecular Techniques in Algal Biology (3) NW R. CATTOLICOIntroduction to major algal groups emphasizing differences in form and function. Laboratory techniques include methods for culturing and plating algae; fluorescence microscopy of chloroplasts and lipid bodies; subcellular fractionation of organelles; pigment analysis and protein determination. Focus placed on scientific writing.
Biology^The Greening of the Earth: Influence of Plants on the Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems The Greening of the Earth: Influence of Plants on the Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems BIOL 447 The Greening of the Earth: Influence of Plants on the Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems (5) NW C. STROMBERGExamines the evolution of terrestrial ecosystems focusing on how abiotic factors such as climate change have shaped the evolution of vegetation on earth, and how the evolution of vegetation has influenced the evolution of animals. Introduces paleoecological techniques using Burke Museum plant fossils.
Biology^Mammalogy Mammalogy BIOL 448 Mammalogy (5) NW S. SANTANA MATAStudies evolutionary patterns, ecology, behavior, physiology, and taxonomy of mammals. Relies on a comparative, systems approach to understand the major trends and mechanisms maintaining the diversity in form and function in mammals.
Biology^Applied Phylogenetics Applied Phylogenetics BIOL 449 Applied Phylogenetics (3) NW A. LEACHEEmphasizes the estimation of species trees - multilocus estimates of species or population relationships as opposed to genealogies of alleles. Provides students with the computation and bioinformatics skills needed to apply new phylogenetic techniques that can accommodate larger, more complex data sets.
Biology^Vertebrate Paleontology Vertebrate Paleontology BIOL 450 Vertebrate Paleontology (5) NW C. SIDORExamines fossil vertebrate life, focusing on systematics and morphology of major lineages (fish, reptiles, bird, and early mammal relatives). Examines fossil and modern vertebrates from the Burke Museum collection in the lab. Weekend field trip.
Biology^Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Paleontology BIOL 451 Invertebrate Paleontology (5) NWImportant larger invertebrate groups; morphology, classification, stratigraphic distribution, evolution, paleoecology. Offered: jointly with ESS 451.
Biology^Vertebrate Biology Vertebrate Biology BIOL 452 Vertebrate Biology (5) NWThe biology of vertebrate animals, emphasizing their diversity, adaptations, and evolutionary history. Introduces aspects of behavior, physiology, morphology, and ecology that emerge from the comparative study of vertebrates. Laboratory includes local field trips, films, and introduction to regional vertebrate fauna.
Biology^Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates BIOL 453 Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates (5) NWComparison of the structure of vertebrate organ systems: integument, skeletal, muscle, digestive, respiratory, cardiovascular, urinary, and reproductive, with an emphasis on evolutionary trends.
Biology^Entomology Entomology BIOL 454 Entomology (5) NWCovers the biology of terrestrial arthropods, with emphasis on insects. Includes structure, classification, physiology, and ecology of insects. Interrelationships of insects and man. Requires at least one weekend field trip.
Biology^Chemical Communication Chemical Communication BIOL 457 Chemical Communication (3) NW J. RIFFELLExploration of how chemical signals are produced, transported, and influence behavior of microbes, plants, and animals. Synthetic approach, with emphasis on applications to cell biology, neurobiology, and ecology.
Biology^Behavioral Genetics Behavioral Genetics BIOL 458 Behavioral Genetics (4) NWRole of genetics in determining variation in human and animal behavior and in regulating behavioral development. Techniques for quantifying genetic variation, behavioral effects, and gene expression.
Biology^Developmental Neurobiology Developmental Neurobiology BIOL 459 Developmental Neurobiology (3) NW M. BOSMAInvertebrate and vertebrate examples illustrate the mechanisms used in constructing nervous systems. Focus on the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie questions about the basis of neuronal diversity, axonal pathfinding and target recognition, synaptogenesis, and activity-dependent plasticity.
Biology^Mammalian Physiology Mammalian Physiology BIOL 460 Mammalian Physiology (3) NWPrinciples of mammalian physiology with special emphasis on the cardiac, respiratory, renal systems taught at the organ and organ systems level.
Biology^Neurobiology Neurobiology BIOL 461 Neurobiology (3) NWBroad examination of integrative mechanisms in central nervous system function, with emphasis on sensory processing, plasticity, and control of behavior. Examples are taken from a variety of animal groups.
Biology^Advanced Animal Physiology Advanced Animal Physiology BIOL 462 Advanced Animal Physiology (3) NWPhysiology at levels of organisms and behavior, organ systems, and cells - an evolutionary and integrative perspective. Organismal physiology: metabolism, temperature, locomotion, osmoregulation, respiration, circulation, digestion.
Biology^Advanced Animal Physiology Lab Advanced Animal Physiology Lab BIOL 463 Advanced Animal Physiology Lab (3) NWExperimental design and techniques, data analysis, written reports. Original project labs and experiments in physiology.
Biology^Comparative Endocrinology Comparative Endocrinology BIOL 465 Comparative Endocrinology (3) NWHormonal integration of living processes at all levels in animals: molecules, cells, organs, organisms, populations.
Biology^Pathobiology of Emerging Diseases Pathobiology of Emerging Diseases BIOL 466 Pathobiology of Emerging Diseases (3) NW L. ZEMANExamination of the causes, alterations in cellular function, and remediation of emerging diseases in plants and animals from a global perspective. Includes weekly scientific papers.
Biology^Comparative Animal Physiology Comparative Animal Physiology BIOL 467 Comparative Animal Physiology (3) NWStudies organismal function in an evolutionary context. Uses a variety of animals to highlight transitions in metabolism, muscle function, respiration, circulation, digestion, excretion, and ion regulation.
Biology^Medical Physiology Medical Physiology BIOL 468 Medical Physiology (3) D. WEIGLEStudents deepen their understanding of human physiology and pathophysiology by performing in-depth analyses of actual medical cases. Cases are chosen to illustrate the mechanisms of frequently encountered diseases and the clinical presentation of affected patients.
Biology^Evolution and Medicine Evolution and Medicine BIOL 469 Evolution and Medicine (3) NW C. BERGSTROMResponds to new applications of evolutionary biology in medicine, now being discovered at an accelerating rate. Emphasizes medically relevant aspects of evolutionary biology.
Biology^Biogeography Biogeography BIOL 470 Biogeography (4) NWAnalysis of historical and ecological determinants of current and past distributions of organisms. Integrates techniques developed by taxonomists, paleontologists, geologists, evolutionists, ecologists, and biogeographers to elucidate relationships between geographical distributions and continental drift, ecological interactions, climate, and dispersal abilities of organisms.
Biology^Plant Ecology Plant Ecology BIOL 471 Plant Ecology (5) NWBasic concepts of plant ecology, including studies of the environment, plant-environment interactions, populations, communities, and ecosystems. Laboratory includes one weekend field trip, laboratory and greenhouse experiments, and an introduction to ecological problem solving.
Biology^Community Ecology Community Ecology BIOL 472 Community Ecology (5) NWCovers the complexity of biological communities as influenced by biotic and abiotic factors, as well as the impact of human activities (like global warming) on communities.
Biology^Limnology Limnology BIOL 473 Limnology (3) NWEcology, conservation, and management of inland aquatic ecosystems. Explores interactions among biological, chemical, and physical features of lakes and other aquatic habitats.
Biology^Limnology Laboratory Limnology Laboratory BIOL 474 Limnology Laboratory (2) NWExamination of biota of fresh waters, survey of limnological methods, analysis of data, and writing of scientific papers.
Biology^Intensive Field Experience in Biology Intensive Field Experience in Biology BIOL 475 Intensive Field Experience in Biology (5) NWIntroduces field methods and research in various areas of biology, e.g., paleontology, ecology, climate change, and mycology. Includes two or more weeks away from campus at field site. Offered: S.
Biology^Conservation Biology Conservation Biology BIOL 476 Conservation Biology (5) NWExplores biological, managerial, economic, and ethical concepts affecting survival of species. Applications of ecology, biogeography, population genetics, and social sciences for the preservation of species in the face of widespread global habitat modification, destruction, and other human activities.
Biology^Seminar in Marine Biology Seminar in Marine Biology BIOL 477 Seminar in Marine Biology (3) NW RoccapReviews current research in marine biology. Emphasizes critical readings and discussion of primary literature.
Biology^Topics in Sustainable Fisheries Topics in Sustainable Fisheries BIOL 478 Topics in Sustainable Fisheries (3, max. 9) I&S/NWSeminar series featuring local, national, and internationally known speakers in fisheries management and conservation. Conservation/restoration in practice. Pre-seminar discussion section focusing on select readings. Topics may include harvest management, whaling, by-catch, salmon, marine protected areas, introduced species, citizen action, co-management, and marine ethics. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 478/FISH 478.
Biology^Research in Marine Biology Research in Marine Biology BIOL 479 Research in Marine Biology (1-15, max. 15)Individual research on topics in marine biology. Research projects supervised by an individual faculty member. Projects may include laboratory work, fieldwork, and literature surveys.
Biology^Field Ecology Field Ecology BIOL 480 Field Ecology (4) NW P. BOERSMAField projects examining ecological and behavioral topics such as foraging and social behavior, species interactions, and structure of terrestrial and aquatic communities. Two weekend fieldtrips required.
Biology^Experimental Evolutionary Ecology Experimental Evolutionary Ecology BIOL 481 Experimental Evolutionary Ecology (5) NW B. KERRExplores experimentally approachable questions in ecology and evolution through lectures, laboratory, and field experiments. Topics may include evolution of bacterial antibiotic resistance, the evolution of virulence, seed predation, plant biodiversity, and others.
Biology^Advanced Experimental Evolutionary Ecology Advanced Experimental Evolutionary Ecology BIOL 482 Advanced Experimental Evolutionary Ecology (2-5, max. 15) NW B. KERRWorking in pairs or independently, students pursue supervised original field or laboratory research projects. Projects span three academic quarters, with project development beginning in autumn, research continuing in winter, and culminating in spring with production of a scientific paper.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Paleobiology Senior Seminar in Paleobiology BIOL 483 Senior Seminar in Paleobiology (1, max. 6)Supervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Evolution and Systematics Senior Seminar in Evolution and Systematics BIOL 484 Senior Seminar in Evolution and Systematics (1-3, max. 9) NWSupervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Cellular, Molecular and Developmental Biology Senior Seminar in Cellular, Molecular and Developmental Biology BIOL 485 Senior Seminar in Cellular, Molecular and Developmental Biology (1-3, max. 9) NWSupervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Ecology Senior Seminar in Ecology BIOL 486 Senior Seminar in Ecology (1-3, max. 9) NWSupervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Conservation Biology Senior Seminar in Conservation Biology BIOL 487 Senior Seminar in Conservation Biology (1-3, max. 9) NWSupervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Physiology Senior Seminar in Physiology BIOL 488 Senior Seminar in Physiology (1-3, max. 9) NWSupervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Senior Seminar in Plant Biology Senior Seminar in Plant Biology BIOL 489 Senior Seminar in Plant Biology (1-3, max. 9) NWSupervised readings and group discussion.
Biology^Undergraduate Seminar Undergraduate Seminar BIOL 490 Undergraduate Seminar (1-3, max. 6) NWSupervised readings and group discussion of selected topics of broad biological significance.
Biology^Teaching Biology Inclusively to Diverse Audiences Teaching Biology Inclusively to Diverse Audiences BIOL 492 Teaching Biology Inclusively to Diverse Audiences (3) DIVDesigned to help biology students gain skills in disseminating science information to students at any level, patients, and the public. Pays special attention to making STEM education accessible to underrepresented populations. Includes hands-on practice in variety of learning strategies and teaching practices.
Biology^Study Abroad - Advanced Biology Study Abroad - Advanced Biology BIOL 493 Study Abroad - Advanced Biology (1-15, max. 15) NWFor participants in UW Study Abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major requirements without approval.
Biology^Undergraduate Research in Paleobiology Undergraduate Research in Paleobiology BIOL 495 Undergraduate Research in Paleobiology (1-5, max. 10) NWIndividually arranged undergraduate research for students in the field of paleobiology.
Biology^Special Topics in Biology Special Topics in Biology BIOL 497 Special Topics in Biology (1-5, max. 10) NW
Biology^Library Research Library Research BIOL 498 Library Research (1-5, max. 10)
Biology^Topics in Biology Topics in Biology BIOL 500 Topics in Biology (1-3, max. 16)
Biology^Topics in Biological Instruction Topics in Biological Instruction BIOL 501 Topics in Biological Instruction (1-2, max. 10)Focused discussion of on-going research in instructional methods for life science courses.
Biology^Grant Writing Grant Writing BIOL 502 Grant Writing (3)Introduces the steps of compiling a successful grant proposal, using the NSF graduate fellowship as a template. Offered: A.
Biology^Teaching Biology Inclusively for Diverse Audiences Teaching Biology Inclusively for Diverse Audiences BIOL 505 Teaching Biology Inclusively for Diverse Audiences (1-3, max. 10)Designed to help biology students gain skills in disseminating science information to students at any level, patients, and the public. Pays special attention to making STEM education accessible to underrepresented populations. Includes hands-on practice in variety of learning strategies and teaching practices.
Biology^Scientific Manuscript Writing Scientific Manuscript Writing BIOL 506 Scientific Manuscript Writing (4)Introduces the writing of scientific articles. Students write a scientific manuscript, cover letter, and identify a journal for submission. Offered: W.
Biology^Topics in Mathematical Biology Topics in Mathematical Biology BIOL 511 Topics in Mathematical Biology (1-3, max. 15)Discussion of current topics in mathematical biology.
Biology^Data Science for Biologists Data Science for Biologists BIOL 519 Data Science for Biologists (3) B. BRUNTONExplores, analyzes, and visualizes biological data sets using scientific computing software. Focuses on the foundations of data wrangling, data analysis, and statistics, particularly the development of automated techniques that are reproducible and scalable to large data sets. Offered: Sp.
Biology^Departmental Seminar Departmental Seminar BIOL 520 Departmental Seminar (1, max. 18) Offered: AWSp.
Biology^Advanced Organismal Biology Advanced Organismal Biology BIOL 533 Advanced Organismal Biology (9)Advanced study and research in organismal biology. Emphasizes marine organisms and habitats of the San Juan Archipelago. Includes individual research projects.
Biology^Comparative Invertebrate Embryology Comparative Invertebrate Embryology BIOL 536 Comparative Invertebrate Embryology (9)Diversity in developmental patterns in major marine taxa. Analysis of evolutionary changes in development. Emphasis on observation of live embryos and larvae.
Biology^Marine Phycology Marine Phycology BIOL 539 Marine Phycology (9)Field and laboratory studies of marine algae of the San Juan Archipelago with emphasis on seaweed diversity, identification, and the role of algae in marine ecosystems. Offered at Friday Harbor Laboratories.
Biology^Seminar in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology Seminar in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology BIOL 540 Seminar in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology (1-3, max. 15)Weekly discussions of past and current scientific literature in cell, molecular, and/or developmental biology, review of the state of the field, and presentation of research results. Discussions may cover the full breadth of the discipline or focus on selected topics.
Biology^Topics in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology Topics in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology BIOL 541 Topics in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology (1-3, max. 15)Focused discussion of on-going cell, molecular, or developmental biology research occurring in the instructor's laboratory.
Biology^Analysis of Development Analysis of Development BIOL 542 Analysis of Development (1-3, max. 15)Analysis of structural, physiological, and molecular levels of developmental processes, including gametogenesis, fertilization, cell and tissue movements, induction, and cytodifferentiation. Graduate standing or permission of instructor.
Biology^Biology of Drosophila Seminar Biology of Drosophila Seminar BIOL 543 Biology of Drosophila Seminar (1, max. 12)Weekly presentation by participants of classical literature, current literature, and research in the molecular biology, developmental biology, neurobiology, and genetics of Drosophila.
Biology^Evolution of Photosynthesis Evolution of Photosynthesis BIOL 544 Evolution of Photosynthesis (3) R. CATTOLICOFocuses on the evolution of photosynthetic eukaryotic cells. Interactive discussions target the morphological, genetic, and biochemical consequences of progenitor cell specialization within extant taxa.
Biology^MCD-Biology Professional Skills Seminar MCD-Biology Professional Skills Seminar BIOL 545 MCD-Biology Professional Skills Seminar (1, max. 6) D. PARICHYPresentations of past or planned research in molecular, cellular, or developmental biology. Participants give presentations in either professional-meeting or chalk-talk formats. Uses written and oral evaluations by audience to focus on scientific content as well as presentation skills. Offered: AWSp.
Biology^Seminar in Evolution and Systematics Seminar in Evolution and Systematics BIOL 550 Seminar in Evolution and Systematics (1-3, max. 15)Weekly discussions of past and current scientific literature in evolution and/or systematics, reviews of the state of the field, and presentation of research results. Discussions may cover the full breadth of the discipline or focus on selected topics.
Biology^Topics in Evolution and Systematics Topics in Evolution and Systematics BIOL 551 Topics in Evolution and Systematics (1-3, max. 24)Focused discussion of on-going research in evolution and/or systematics occurring in the instructor's laboratory.
Biology^Advanced Evolution Advanced Evolution BIOL 552 Advanced Evolution ([2-5]-, max. 10)Successful analytical approaches to understanding evolutionary patterns and the processes that generate them, examined by using a wide array of empirical and theoretical tools. Survey of how theory, modeling, and statistics can be applied to observations and experiments in evolutionary biology.
Biology^Applied Phylogenetics Applied Phylogenetics BIOL 553 Applied Phylogenetics (3) A. LEACHESurvey of methods for estimating phylogenetic trees. Covers theory and use of phylogeny in comparative biology. Computer labs focus on analyzing real data to answer relevant biological questions. Strong computer skills necessary. Includes weekly discussions of scientific papers and an individual research project.
Biology^Introduction to Graduate Research in Paleobiology Introduction to Graduate Research in Paleobiology BIOL 555 Introduction to Graduate Research in Paleobiology (1)Introduction to paleobiology techniques and resources. Offered: jointly with ESS 558; A.
Biology^Vertebrate Paleontology Vertebrate Paleontology BIOL 557 Vertebrate Paleontology (5)Examines the biology of vertebrate animals, emphasizing their diversity, adaptations, and evolutionary history. Introduces aspects of behavior, physiology, morphology, and ecology that emerge from the comparative study of vertebrates. Laboratory includes local field trips and introduction to regional vertebrate fauna. Offered: jointly with ESS 557.
Biology^Seminar in Ecology Seminar in Ecology BIOL 560 Seminar in Ecology (1-3, max. 15)Weekly discussions of past and current scientific literature in ecology, reviews of the state of the field, and presentation of research results. Discussions may cover the full breadth of the discipline or focus on selected topics.
Biology^Topics in Ecology Topics in Ecology BIOL 561 Topics in Ecology (1-3, max. 15)Focused discussion of on-going research in ecology occurring in the instructor's laboratory.
Biology^Experimental Evolutionary Ecology Experimental Evolutionary Ecology BIOL 563 Experimental Evolutionary Ecology (5) B. KERRExplores experimentally approachable questions in ecology and evolution through lectures, lab, and field experiments. Topics may include evolution of bacterial antibiotic resistance, the evolution of virulence, seed predation, plant biodiversity, and others. Corequisite: BIOL 481. Offered: A.
Biology^Advanced Experimental Evolutionary Ecology Advanced Experimental Evolutionary Ecology BIOL 564 Advanced Experimental Evolutionary Ecology (2-5, max. 15) B. KERRWorking independently or paired with an undergraduate in BIOL 482, students pursue supervised original field or laboratory research projects. Projects span three academic quarters, with project development beginning in autumn, research continuing in winter, and culminating in spring with production of a scientific paper.
Biology^Community Ecology Community Ecology BIOL 565 Community Ecology (5) J. HILLE RIS LAMBERSCovers the complexity of biological communities as influenced by biotic and abiotic factors, as wells as the impact of human activities, like global warming, on communities.
Biology^Topics in Advanced Ecology Topics in Advanced Ecology BIOL 567 Topics in Advanced Ecology (3, max. 6)Discusses literature on active research areas or controversies in different branches of ecology. Offered: jointly with FISH 567/SEFS 567; W.
Biology^Seminar in Conservation Biology Seminar in Conservation Biology BIOL 570 Seminar in Conservation Biology (1-3, max. 15)Weekly discussions of past and current scientific literature in conservation biology, reviews of the state of the field, and presentation of research results. Discussions may cover the full breadth of the discipline or focus on selected topics. tes.
Biology^Topics in Conservation Biology Topics in Conservation Biology BIOL 571 Topics in Conservation Biology (1-3, max. 15)Focused discussion of on-going research in conservation biology occurring in the instructor's laboratory. Graduate status required, or permission of instructor for undergraduates.
Biology^Seminar in Physiology Seminar in Physiology BIOL 580 Seminar in Physiology (1-3, max. 15)Weekly discussions of past and current scientific literature in physiology, reviews of the state of the field, and presentation of research results. Discussions may cover the full breadth of the discipline or focus on selected topics.
Biology^Topics in Physiology Topics in Physiology BIOL 581 Topics in Physiology (1-3, max. 15)Focused discussion of on-going research in physiology occurring in the instructor's laboratory.
Biology^Physiological Mechanisms of Histology Physiological Mechanisms of Histology BIOL 583 Physiological Mechanisms of Histology (5) L. ZEMANDevelops recognition of cellular structures with correlations to normal physiology and disease states. Lab projects cover harvesting, sectioning, staining, and mounting tissue. Includes weekly scientific papers.
Biology^Seminar in Organismal Biology Seminar in Organismal Biology BIOL 590 Seminar in Organismal Biology (1-3, max. 15)Weekly discussions of past and current scientific literature in organismal biology, reviews of the state of the field, and presentation of research results. Discussions may cover the full breadth of the discipline or focus on selected topics.
Biology^Topics in Organismal Biology Topics in Organismal Biology BIOL 591 Topics in Organismal Biology (1-3, max. 15)Focused discussion of on-going research in organismal biology occurring in the the instructor's laboratory.
Psychology^Introduction to Psychology Introduction to Psychology PSYCH 101 Introduction to Psychology (5) I&S King, McDermott, Osterhout, PasserSurveys major areas of psychological science. Core topics include human social behavior, personality, psychological disorders and treatment, learning, memory, human development, biological influences, and research methods. Related topics may include sensation, perception, states of consciousness, thinking, intelligence, language, motivation, emotion, stress and health, cross-cultural psychology, and applied psychology. Offered: AWSpS.
Psychology^Comparative Animal Behavior Comparative Animal Behavior PSYCH 200 Comparative Animal Behavior (3-5) NW Barash, BeecherResearch methods and findings of comparative animal behavior, their importance to an understanding of human behavior; rationale for study of behavioral differences/similarities between animal species, behavior viewed as part of adaptation of each species to its natural habitat. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 300.
Psychology^Psychology of Performance Enhancement Psychology of Performance Enhancement PSYCH 201 Psychology of Performance Enhancement (4) I&S Smith, SmollApplications of psychological theories, research, and intervention strategies to performance enhancement in variety of life settings. Self-regulation models and techniques; stress and emotional control; attention control and concentration; mental rehearsal; time management; goal-setting; memory enhancement; communication and interpersonal conflict resolution. Participation in various psychological training procedures.
Psychology^Biopsychology Biopsychology PSYCH 202 Biopsychology (5) NW Kim, OlavarriaExamines the biological basis of behavior, the nervous system, how it works to control behavior and sense the world, and what happens when it malfunctions. Topics include learning and memory, development, sex, drugs, sleep, the senses, emotions, and mental disorders.
Psychology^Introduction to Personality and Individual Differences Introduction to Personality and Individual Differences PSYCH 203 Introduction to Personality and Individual Differences (4) I&S SmithOverview of the major theories, research findings, and applications in the scientific study of personality. Covers research methods and approaches to measuring personality variables. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 303.
Psychology^Behavior Disorders Behavior Disorders PSYCH 205 Behavior Disorders (5) I&SExamines the bio-psycho-social origins of behavioral disorders. Topics include theories of etiology, developmental perspectives of behavior disorders, and assessment and diagnosis of the most common behavioral disorders. Note: not open for credit for students who have taken PSYCH 305.
Psychology^Human Development Human Development PSYCH 206 Human Development (5) I&STheoretical perspectives and research methods in child development with an overview of historical and current works. Includes prenatal and biological development, the development of cognitive, linguistic, and social and emotional abilities. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 306.
Psychology^Fundamentals of Psychological Research Fundamentals of Psychological Research PSYCH 209 Fundamentals of Psychological Research (5) Little, PasserPsychological research methodology and techniques. Topics include the logic of hypothesis testing, experimental design, research strategies and techniques, fundamentals of scientific writing, search and evaluation of research literature in psychology, and ethical issues in psychological research. Required for all psychology majors.
Psychology^The Diversity of Human Sexuality The Diversity of Human Sexuality PSYCH 210 The Diversity of Human Sexuality (5) I&S, DIV McDermottConsiders biological, psychological, and socio-cultural determinants of human sexuality and sexual behavior, and how their interaction leads to diverse expressions of sexuality, sexual bonding, gender orientation, reproductive strategies, and physical and psychological sexual development. Topics include cultural appraisal of sexuality, sexual health and reproduction (pregnancy, contraception, abortion), and sexual abuse and assault.
Psychology^Introduction to Social Psychology Introduction to Social Psychology PSYCH 245 Introduction to Social Psychology (5) I&S BrownOverview of major findings of social psychology, emphasizing the relevance for understanding the social behaviors of individuals and groups of individuals and their relationship to social context. Not open for credit to students who have taken PSYCH 345.
Psychology^Racism and Minority Groups Racism and Minority Groups PSYCH 250 Racism and Minority Groups (5) I&S, DIVOverview of the causes, contexts, and consequences of racism and its effects upon minority groups and society. Emphasis on cultural history, political and socioeconomic structures that contribute to racism. Examination of current issues in race relations and cultural pluralism in the United States and selected international topics.
Psychology^Psychology of Gender Psychology of Gender PSYCH 257 Psychology of Gender (5) I&S, DIV KenneyMajor psychological theories of gender-role development; biological and environmental influences that determine and maintain gender differences in behavior; roles in children and adults; topics include aggression, cognitive abilities, achievement motivation, affiliation. Offered: jointly with GWSS 257.
Psychology^Psychosocial Aspects of Nuclear War Psychosocial Aspects of Nuclear War PSYCH 260 Psychosocial Aspects of Nuclear War (3) I&S BarashIntroduction to basic issues of nuclear war, including its effects, weaponry, and history of the arms race. Primary focus on the psychologic underpinnings of deterrence, relations between nations, and the personal and social forces operative in the arms race and peace movements.
Psychology^Principles of Applied Animal Behavior Principles of Applied Animal Behavior PSYCH 291 Principles of Applied Animal Behavior (3-5) NWFurther explores the basic principles of animal behavior, and related disciplines, with particular emphasis on application to human-animal interaction and issues. Introduces the primary literature in applied animal behavior.
Psychology^Applied Animal Behavior in Practice Applied Animal Behavior in Practice PSYCH 292 Applied Animal Behavior in Practice (3-5) NWIntegrates animal behavior theory with real-world practice to resolve practical problem in human-animal interactions, including companion animals, captive animals, and livestock. Introduces the primary clinical literature in applied animal behavior.
Psychology^Psychology Transfer Academic Community Psychology Transfer Academic Community PSYCH 299 Psychology Transfer Academic Community (2)Provides opportunity for transfer students new to or contemplating the psychology major to experience an in- depth orientation to the department, curriculum, and resources available to undergraduates. Students meet weekly to explore ways to effectively engage in the major and expand their understanding of the academic discipline.
Psychology^Animal Behavior Animal Behavior PSYCH 300 Animal Behavior (5) NW Beecher, SisnerosIntroduces important concepts and empirical findings in animal behavior. Emphasizes evolutionary and mechanistic approaches to understanding diversity and complexity of behavior. Topics include communication, mating, migration, and sociality.
Psychology^Personality Personality PSYCH 303 Personality (5) I&S BrownOverview of major perspectives, scientific issues, applications, and research findings in the area of personality. Direct exposure to scientific literature, writing assignments, and research-based class experiences prepare students for advanced work in personality, social, abnormal, and developmental psychology.
Psychology^Abnormal Psychology Abnormal Psychology PSYCH 305 Abnormal Psychology (5) I&SAn overview of major categories of psychopathology, including description and classification, theoretical models, and recent research on etiology and treatment.
Psychology^Developmental Psychology Developmental Psychology PSYCH 306 Developmental Psychology (5) I&S Repacholi, SommervilleOverview of past and present theoretical and research-based approaches to biological, cognitive, and social development from the prenatal period to early adolescence.
Psychology^Understanding Statistics in Psychology Understanding Statistics in Psychology PSYCH 315 Understanding Statistics in Psychology (5) QSR Boynton, Flaherty, LittleStatistics for psychological research. Elementary probability theory, hypothesis testing, and estimation. Satisfies the statistics requirement for majors registered in the psychology Bachelor of Arts degree program.
Psychology^Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Psychology Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Psychology PSYCH 317 Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Psychology (5) QSR Little, LoftusProbability theory as a model for scientific inference. Probabilistic variables and experimental outcomes, conditional probability, binomial and related distributions, experiments as samples, statistics and sampling distributions, the normal distribution, confidence intervals, problems of estimation from experiments.
Psychology^Statistical Inference in Psychological Research Statistical Inference in Psychological Research PSYCH 318 Statistical Inference in Psychological Research (5) QSR Little, LoftusHypothesis testing: probabilistic and statistical basis. Development and application of statistical inference techniques employed in psychological research: confidence intervals, t-test, ANOVA, and correlation and regression. Nature and control of experimental and inferential error in research. Required for majors for psychology BS degree.
Psychology^Introduction to Drugs and Behavior Introduction to Drugs and Behavior PSYCH 322 Introduction to Drugs and Behavior (3) NW DiazBasic concepts of drug action emphasizing the behavioral consequences of the intake of a variety of drugs.
Psychology^Laboratory in Animal Behavior Laboratory in Animal Behavior PSYCH 330 Laboratory in Animal Behavior (5) NW BrenowitzExperience with a variety of animal species and experimental procedures and instrumentation.
Psychology^Laboratory in Human Performance Laboratory in Human Performance PSYCH 331 Laboratory in Human Performance (5) I&S JoslynSelected aspects of human cognition, perception, and performance.
Psychology^Neurobehavioral Lab Neurobehavioral Lab PSYCH 332 Neurobehavioral Lab (5) NW DiazExplores the neural mechanisms of behavior via neuropharmacological and neuroanatomical approaches. Includes the ethics and regulation of animal experimentation.
Psychology^Sensory and Perceptual Processes Sensory and Perceptual Processes PSYCH 333 Sensory and Perceptual Processes (5) NW Boynton, Buck, Covey, FineAn overview of each of the major senses with emphasis on the structure and function of sensory systems and the relation of the underlying biology to perceptual processes and behavior.
Psychology^Laboratory in Social Psychology Laboratory in Social Psychology PSYCH 334 Laboratory in Social Psychology (5) I&S CheryanMethodology of laboratory and field research on social behavior; data analysis and report writing; research projects.
Psychology^Social Psychology Social Psychology PSYCH 345 Social Psychology (5) I&S Brown, KaiserThe scientific study of how people's thoughts, feelings, and actions influence, and are influenced by, other people.
Psychology^Honors Research Seminar in Psychology Honors Research Seminar in Psychology PSYCH 350 Honors Research Seminar in Psychology (2-, max. 4) BassokPresentations by professors and advanced students concerning the rationale, methodology, and progress of their research projects; assistance with research projects; preparation of junior paper. Four credits of PSYCH 350 required for all junior Honors candidates in conjunction with PSYCH 498 and PSYCH 499. Offered: AWSp.
Psychology^Cognitive Psychology Cognitive Psychology PSYCH 355 Cognitive Psychology (5) I&S Joslyn, MiyamotoCurrent theory and research in perception, attention, memory and learning, attitudes, thinking and decision making, and language. For the student who wishes a survey or who intends additional work in any of the above content areas.
Psychology^Psychobiology of Women Psychobiology of Women PSYCH 357 Psychobiology of Women (5) NW KenneyPhysiological and psychological aspects of women's lives; determinants of biological sex; physiological and psychological events of puberty; menopause; sexuality; contraception, pregnancy, childbirth, and lactation; role of culture in determining psychological response to physiological events. Offered: jointly with GWSS 357.
Psychology^Cross-Cultural Competence Cross-Cultural Competence PSYCH 380 Cross-Cultural Competence (4) I&SFacilitates development of multicultural competence; focuses on mental health/social service needs of ethnic and linguistic minorities, and developing personal/interpersonal skills to reduce barriers, enhance effective service provision to cross cultural groups, sexual minorities, and disabled people.
Psychology^Foreign Study Foreign Study PSYCH 399 Foreign Study (3-5, max. 10)Upper division psychology courses for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents taken through the UW Study Abroad program.
Psychology^Learning Learning PSYCH 400 Learning (5) I&S/NWExperimental research and basic theories primarily in animal learning.
Psychology^Infant Behavior and Development Infant Behavior and Development PSYCH 402 Infant Behavior and Development (3/5) I&S MeltzoffPsychological development in the first two years of life. Basic and advanced techniques for assessing psychological development in infancy. Classic theories of human infancy and examination of a wide range of new experiments about infant behavior and development.
Psychology^Motivation Motivation PSYCH 403 Motivation (5) I&S/NWTheory and research on reinforcement, punishment, frustration, preference, instinctual mechanisms, and other factors controlling animal behavior.
Psychology^Advanced Personality: Theory and Research Advanced Personality: Theory and Research PSYCH 405 Advanced Personality: Theory and Research (5) I&SIntensive survey of theoretical concepts and detailed review of experimental methods and experiments in the field of personality.
Psychology^History of Psychology History of Psychology PSYCH 407 History of Psychology (5) I&SHistorical and theoretical background of the basic assumptions of modern psychology, including such doctrines as behaviorism, determinism, and associationism and the scientists who developed them.
Psychology^Mechanisms of Animal Behavior Mechanisms of Animal Behavior PSYCH 408 Mechanisms of Animal Behavior (4) NW Beecher, Brenowitz, SisnerosComparative exploration of physiological and perceptual mechanisms that control behaviors necessary for survival and reproduction in animals. Model systems discussed include animal communication, mate choice, escape behavior, learning and memory, orientation, biological rhythms, foraging behavior.
Psychology^Sociobiology Sociobiology PSYCH 409 Sociobiology (5) NWBiological bases of social behavior, emphasizing evolution as a paradigm. Emphasizes how to think like an evolutionary biologist, especially with regard to interest conflict. Topics are individual versus group selection, kin selection, altruism, mating systems, sexual conflict, alternate reproductive strategies, and parent/offspring conflict.
Psychology^Child and Adolescent Behavior Disorders Child and Adolescent Behavior Disorders PSYCH 410 Child and Adolescent Behavior Disorders (5) I&SIntroduction to psychopathology in children and adolescents, and an overview of principal modes of intervention. Particularly for students interested in advanced work in clinical psychology, social work, or special education.
Psychology^Perceptual Development Perceptual Development PSYCH 411 Perceptual Development (5) I&S/NW MeltzoffOrigins and development of perception in human infancy. Object, face, and speech perception; cross-modal relations between touch, vision, audition.
Psychology^Adolescent Development Adolescent Development PSYCH 413 Adolescent Development (5) I&SProvides an overview of physical, cognitive, psychosocial, and emotional development of adolescents with an emphasis on understanding the context in which young people grow up. Explores cultural, environmental, and social influences on development.
Psychology^Cognitive Development Cognitive Development PSYCH 414 Cognitive Development (5) I&S SommervilleKey theoretical and research approaches to cognitive development from infancy through adolescence. Sensorimotor development, language development, imitation, number concepts, logical reasoning, memory, cognition in adolescents, intelligence, and the role of biology, environment, and experience.
Psychology^Personality Development of the Child Personality Development of the Child PSYCH 415 Personality Development of the Child (5) I&S RepacholiSocialization theory and research, infant attachment and social relationships, development of aggressive and altruistic behaviors, sex-role development, moral development, parent and adult influences. Applied issues in social development and policy.
Psychology^Animal Communication Animal Communication PSYCH 416 Animal Communication (5) NW Beecher, Brenowitz, SisnerosEvolution and mechanisms of animal communication and related processes of perception, thinking, and social behavior.
Psychology^Human Behavior as a Natural Science Human Behavior as a Natural Science PSYCH 417 Human Behavior as a Natural Science (5) I&S/NWEvolution of human social behavior and the adaptive significance of communication systems from a sociobiological and anthropological perspective.
Psychology^Primate Social Behavior Primate Social Behavior PSYCH 418 Primate Social Behavior (5) NWSocial behavior, ecology, and group structure of monkeys and apes from an evolutionary, sociobiological, and anthropological perspective.
Psychology^Behavioral Studies of Zoo Animals Behavioral Studies of Zoo Animals PSYCH 419 Behavioral Studies of Zoo Animals (5, max. 10) NWObservational studies of behavior of zoo animals to expand basic knowledge of animal behavior, conservation of endangered species, and research methodology with discussions and tours focusing on zoo philosophy and operations. Offered in cooperation with Woodland Park Zoo.
Psychology^Drugs and Behavior Drugs and Behavior PSYCH 420 Drugs and Behavior (3) NW DiazAnimal and clinical research on the behavioral consequences of drug intake.
Psychology^Neural Basis of Behavior Neural Basis of Behavior PSYCH 421 Neural Basis of Behavior (5) NW DiazAnatomical and physiological principles and resultant behavior involved in the integrative action of the nervous system.
Psychology^Sensory Basis of Behavior Sensory Basis of Behavior PSYCH 423 Sensory Basis of Behavior (5) NW OlavarriaStudy of sensory mechanisms as a way to understand behavior. Basic properties of neurons, anatomy, and physiology of sensory systems, with some emphasis on the visual system.
Psychology^Surgical and Histological Techniques Surgical and Histological Techniques PSYCH 425 Surgical and Histological Techniques (5) NWPracticum in basic and advanced surgical and histological techniques used in psychophysiological experimentation.
Psychology^Neurobiology of Learning and Memory Neurobiology of Learning and Memory PSYCH 426 Neurobiology of Learning and Memory (4) NW MizumoriTheory and research on how animals learn and remember, including basic concepts of brain plasticity, how brain areas and neurons adapt to changes in experiences throughout the lifespan, and cellular and structural substrates of a "memory."
Psychology^Behavioral Endocrinology Behavioral Endocrinology PSYCH 427 Behavioral Endocrinology (5) NWThe endocrine system and how its secretions influence and are influenced by behavior; relationships between the nervous and endocrine systems.
Psychology^Human Motor Control and Learning Human Motor Control and Learning PSYCH 428 Human Motor Control and Learning (5) I&S/NWCurrent theory and research in human motor performance and skill acquisition.
Psychology^Brain Anatomy for the Behavioral Scientist Brain Anatomy for the Behavioral Scientist PSYCH 429 Brain Anatomy for the Behavioral Scientist (1) NW DiazDetailed review of the neuroanatomical features of the sheep brain with laboratory demonstrations.
Psychology^Development of Brain Connections Development of Brain Connections PSYCH 430 Development of Brain Connections (4) NW OlavarriaAnalysis of innate and environmental factors that play a role in the development of brain connections. Critical review of current literature on the various strategies used by neurons to find their appropriate targets.
Psychology^Visual Neuroscience Visual Neuroscience PSYCH 432 Visual Neuroscience (4) I&S/NWSurveys current facts/theories about how our brains interpret the images formed by our eyes to create a presentation of the visual environment. Topics include retinal processing, 3-D vision; color, form, motion, and object perception; and visual illusions.
Psychology^Regulatory Behavior Regulatory Behavior PSYCH 433 Regulatory Behavior (4) NW KenneyNeural and endocrine mechanisms in the control of food and water intake and the regulation of body weight and fluid balance.
Psychology^Human Color Vision Human Color Vision PSYCH 435 Human Color Vision (5) I&S/NW BuckDiscusses how color does not exist in the physical environment but is instead a creation of our brains. Explores perceptual, physiological, developmental, evolutionary, genetic, and cultural aspects of human color vision, including its role in language, culture, and art.
Psychology^Developmental Aspects of Sport Competition Developmental Aspects of Sport Competition PSYCH 436 Developmental Aspects of Sport Competition (4) I&S SmollBiophysical and psychosocial influences of sport participation on growth and development of children and youth. Competition readiness, injuries, stress, aggression, roles and responsibilities of parents and coaches.
Psychology^Motor Development Motor Development PSYCH 437 Motor Development (4) NW SmollAnalysis of motor development from prenatal origins through adolescence with emphasis on relations between biophysical and psychosocial development of children and youth.
Psychology^Social Psychology of Sport Social Psychology of Sport PSYCH 438 Social Psychology of Sport (4) I&S Smith, SmollReciprocal effects of interpersonal and group influence processes, e.g., social facilitation, behavior modification, observational learning, individual versus group performance, group cohesion, leadership, aggression.
Psychology^Perceptual Processes Perceptual Processes PSYCH 441 Perceptual Processes (5) I&S/NWTheory and findings in perception with a focus on visual perception in humans. Discrimination and constancy for simple judgments, segregation and identification of visual objects, and specific areas of investigation such as reading and computer vision.
Psychology^Motivational Theories in Social Psychology Motivational Theories in Social Psychology PSYCH 443 Motivational Theories in Social Psychology (5) I&STheories of motivation in social psychology. Emphasis on how motivation and cognition mutually influence each other to produce behavior. Explores such topics as persuasion, goal pursuit, self-regulation, achievement, and social comparison.
Psychology^Theories of Social Psychology Theories of Social Psychology PSYCH 445 Theories of Social Psychology (5) I&S BrownEvaluation of the major theories of human social behavior supported by the empirical literature; theories of social cognition and thought; major theories of social interaction, group processes, and social learning.
Psychology^Personality Assessment Personality Assessment PSYCH 446 Personality Assessment (3) I&S SmithMeasurement of personality variables in personality research, social psychology, and clinical psychology. Theoretical conceptions underlying various clinical and experimental scales and an assessment of their construct validity and behavioral correlates.
Psychology^Psychology of Language Psychology of Language PSYCH 447 Psychology of Language (4) VLPA/I&S OsterhoutIntroduction to the study of language, including language structure, speech perception, language acquisition, psychological processes underlying comprehension and production of language, the relation between brain and language, and the question of the species-specificity of human language.
Psychology^Seminar in Psychology Seminar in Psychology PSYCH 448 Seminar in Psychology (1-15, max. 15)Selected research topics of contemporary interest. Quarterly listings of specific offerings are available at departmental advising office.
Psychology^ORGANIZATIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL PSYCHOLOGY ORGANIZATIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL PSYCHOLOGY PSYCH 449 ORGANIZATIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL PSYCHOLOGY (3) I&SExamines research on human behavior in industrial and organizational environments. Topics include research methods, job analysis, the prediction of workplace performance, personnel selection and training, performance appraisal, group influences, job satisfaction, job motivation, leadership, and human factors.
Psychology^Honors Research Seminar in Psychology Honors Research Seminar in Psychology PSYCH 450 Honors Research Seminar in Psychology (2-, max. 4) BassokSenior thesis research; preparation of senior thesis; oral presentation of research. Four credits of PSYCH 450 required for all senior Honors candidates in conjunction with PSYCH 498 and PSYCH 499. Offered: AWSp.
Psychology^Health Psychology Health Psychology PSYCH 451 Health Psychology (5) I&S/NWOverview of the psychological and behavioral factors in health and disease. Includes research on both psychological causes and treatments. Topics include stress, risky behaviors, patient-provider interactions, pain, behavioral/medical treatments, and lifestyle interventions.
Psychology^Psychology of the Self-Concept Psychology of the Self-Concept PSYCH 452 Psychology of the Self-Concept (4) I&S BrownExamines psychological theory and research on the role of the self-concept in regulating behavior. Topics include the development of the self-concept; self-awareness; and self-esteem maintenance.
Psychology^Personality and Social Influence Personality and Social Influence PSYCH 454 Personality and Social Influence (4) I&S ShodaSurvey of various theories and research for analyzing person-situation interactions - how the qualities of persons and situations combine to generate thoughts, feelings, and behaviors of a person in a given social situation.
Psychology^Social and Moral Development Social and Moral Development PSYCH 456 Social and Moral Development (5) I&S KahnTheoretical approaches toward explaining children's social and moral development, including those that are nativistic, sociobiological, behavioristic, psychoanalytic, and constructivist. Use of theory to investigate applied problems related to parenting, education, peer relationships, authority, sexuality, culture, ecology, and technology.
Psychology^Language Development Language Development PSYCH 457 Language Development (5) VLPA/I&SFirst-language acquisition and use by children. Emphasis on theoretical issues and research techniques.
Psychology^Behavioral Genetics Behavioral Genetics PSYCH 458 Behavioral Genetics (4) NWRole of genetics in determining variation in human and animal behavior and in regulating behavioral development. Techniques for quantifying genetic variation, behavioral effects, and gene expression.
Psychology^Evolutionary Psychology Evolutionary Psychology PSYCH 459 Evolutionary Psychology (4) I&S/NW Barash, BeecherExplores human behavior from the perspective of biological evolution. Covers core issues such as cooperation, communication, aggression, mating, reproduction, and parental and family interactions, as well as specialized applications within psychology such as psychopathology. Encourages a critical, skeptical examination of this new field.
Psychology^Cognitive Neuroscience Cognitive Neuroscience PSYCH 460 Cognitive Neuroscience (4) NW Murray, OsterhoutDiscussion of neural systems underlying cognitive behavior with particular focus on breakdown of cognition following brain damage. Topics include object and space perception, language, voluntary movement, attention, and memory. Examination of contributions from related areas of neuroimaging, visual perception, linguistics, physiology, and neuroscience.
Psychology^Asian American Psychology Asian American Psychology PSYCH 461 Asian American Psychology (5) I&S CheryanPsychological research on Asian American individuals and the community, with emphasis on social psychological research. Topics include the model minority myth, stereotypes of unassimilation, gender and sexuality, and relationships with other groups.
Psychology^Human Memory Human Memory PSYCH 462 Human Memory (5) I&S JoslynResearch and theory in key areas of memory. Issues covered include information processing theory, the link between memory processes and their biological underpinnings, autobiographical memory, implicit memory, and the effect of emotion on memory.
Psychology^Implicit and Unconscious Cognition Implicit and Unconscious Cognition PSYCH 463 Implicit and Unconscious Cognition (3) I&S/NW GreenwaldOverview of method, theory, and findings concerning cognitive processes operating outside attentional focus or without introspective awareness. Considers relevance to basic phenomena of social, cognitive, and clinical psychology.
Psychology^Intelligence Intelligence PSYCH 465 Intelligence (5) I&SAnalysis of individual differences in cognition. Includes description/use of psychometric ("intelligence test") models, test scores' relationship to academic and non-academic performance, information processing and biological models of intelligence (including genetic models). Discussion of male-female and demographic group differences in cognition.
Psychology^Psychology of Judgment and Decision Making Psychology of Judgment and Decision Making PSYCH 466 Psychology of Judgment and Decision Making (5) I&S MiyamotoHuman information processing in judgment and decision making, especially the interface between cognitive theories and normative and prescriptive theories of decision making.
Psychology^Psychology of Reasoning Psychology of Reasoning PSYCH 469 Psychology of Reasoning (4) I&S BassokCognitive processes in human learning, problem solving, deductive and inductive reasoning.
Psychology^Psychology and Music Psychology and Music PSYCH 470 Psychology and Music (5) VLPA/I&S CoveyIntroduction to the scientific study of musical behavior. An overview of current topics in the psychology of music from the areas of musical perception and cognition, musical development, music therapy, musical performance, and composition. Includes psychoacoustical and neuropsychological foundations, research methods, and some basic material in music theory.
Psychology^Cognition In the Real World Cognition In the Real World PSYCH 471 Cognition In the Real World (4-5, max. 10) I&S JoslynExamines cognitive issues in applied settings, such as the workplace and education. Topics include such issues as attention, expertise, problem solving, decision-making, human error, automation, navigation, and individual differences.
Psychology^Human Factors Psychology Human Factors Psychology PSYCH 472 Human Factors Psychology (4) I&SConsiders human performance factors in the design of tools/equipment, tasks/jobs, and work and living environments. Emphasizes the importance of human perception, memory, attention, motor control, and social context for understanding ways to optimize the relationship between people and technology.
Psychology^Psychology of Peace Psychology of Peace PSYCH 477 Psychology of Peace (5) I&S BarashExamination of the psychological aspects of peace in the modern world. Topics include theories of individual aggressiveness and violence, leadership personalities, crisis decision making, nuclear psychology, images of the enemy, and psychological opportunities and obstacles to the establishment of a peaceful society.
Psychology^Cultural Psychology Cultural Psychology PSYCH 478 Cultural Psychology (4) I&SSurveys cultural influences on cognitive, emotion, morality, self-concept, and mental health, from a multicultural perspective.
Psychology^Advanced Human Sexuality Advanced Human Sexuality PSYCH 479 Advanced Human Sexuality (5) I&S McDermottIntensive reading on current issues relevant to the physiological, psychological, cultural aspects of human sexuality.
Psychology^Ideas of Human Nature Ideas of Human Nature PSYCH 480 Ideas of Human Nature (5) I&S BarashReviews various approaches to the nature of human nature, including ideas from ancient philosophy, theories of the soul, empiricism, idealism, conditioning, social constructions, concepts of Freud, Marx, the existentialists, and neo-Darwinism.
Psychology^Seminar in Advanced Quantitative Methods Seminar in Advanced Quantitative Methods PSYCH 481 Seminar in Advanced Quantitative Methods (3) LittleExamines the role of statistical methods in psychological research. Issues and controversies surrounding null hypothesis significance testing. Review of selected alternative statistical methods in psychology.
Psychology^Advanced Research Methods for Behavioral Psychology Advanced Research Methods for Behavioral Psychology PSYCH 482 Advanced Research Methods for Behavioral Psychology (4) QSR Greenwald, ShodaDevelops skills of collecting and analyzing behavioral research data, communicating the results orally and in writing, and expressing perspectives on issues of scientific method and practice.
Psychology^Writing in Psychology Writing in Psychology PSYCH 483 Writing in Psychology (5) Covey, JoslynHelps students refine scientific writing skills. Students practice conducting focused literature searches and writing literature reviews, preparing empirical data for presentations, organizing and writing research reports, and writing about psychology for a lay audience.
Psychology^Primate Conservation Biology and Behavior Primate Conservation Biology and Behavior PSYCH 485 Primate Conservation Biology and Behavior (5) NW KyesExamines the principles and concepts of conservation biology as they apply to the nonhuman primates with special attention to theoretical advances, conservation strategies, and management practices central to primate conservation.
Psychology^Animal Mind Animal Mind PSYCH 486 Animal Mind (4) NW BeecherExplores the cognitive capacities of animals. Focuses on the classical question, first clearly posed by Darwin, of how similar are the cognitive processes underlying behavior in humans and animals. Encourages a critical, skeptical examination of this new field.
Psychology^Advanced Psychobiology of Women Advanced Psychobiology of Women PSYCH 487 Advanced Psychobiology of Women (5) I&S/NW KenneyIntensive reading on current issues relevant to women's psychology and physiology.
Psychology^Stress and Coping Stress and Coping PSYCH 488 Stress and Coping (4) I&S/NWReviews theories and research concerning stress and its roles in behavior, personality, development, health, and interpersonal relationships. Coping analyzed as a factor in the way people respond to stressful circumstances.
Psychology^Clinical Psychology Clinical Psychology PSYCH 489 Clinical Psychology (3) I&SBasic issues, methods, and research: professional issues, psychological assessment, and approaches to psychotherapy and behavioral change.
Psychology^Stress Management Stress Management PSYCH 490 Stress Management (3) I&S/NWNature of stress. Physiological responses to stress and relaxation. Techniques of stress management with training in relaxation, biofeedback, meditation, cognitive restructuring, exercise, nutrition, interpersonal communication skills, and time management.
Psychology^Special Topics in Child Development, Learning, and Mental Health Special Topics in Child Development, Learning, and Mental Health PSYCH 491 Special Topics in Child Development, Learning, and Mental Health (1-5, max. 30) I&SSelected topics of contemporary interest in child development, learning, and mental health.
Psychology^Field Study in Animal Behavior Field Study in Animal Behavior PSYCH 494 Field Study in Animal Behavior (2-3, max. 9) KyesField experience in areas relating to animal behavior through participation in seminar discussion and field exercises and training at foreign and domestic field study sites.
Psychology^Undergraduate Teaching Experience in Psychology Undergraduate Teaching Experience in Psychology PSYCH 496 Undergraduate Teaching Experience in Psychology (2-3, max. 6)Students are trained as assistants in quiz sections or as supplemental tutors for undergraduate psychology courses. Designed especially for students planning graduate work or education certification. An overall maximum of 18 credits in PSYCH 496, PSYCH 497, PSYCH 498, and PSYCH 499 may apply toward a baccalaureate degree.
Psychology^Undergraduate Fieldwork Undergraduate Fieldwork PSYCH 497 Undergraduate Fieldwork (2-5, max. 10)Individual consultation with faculty member and supervised practicum experience in a broad range of community settings and agencies dealing with psychological problems. An overall maximum of 18 credits in PSYCH 496, PSYCH 497, PSYCH 498, and PSYCH 499 may apply toward a baccalaureate degree.
Psychology^Directed Reading in Psychology Directed Reading in Psychology PSYCH 498 Directed Reading in Psychology (1-3, max. 18)Readings in special interest areas under supervision of departmental faculty. Discussion of reading in conference with the instructor. An overall maximum of 18 credits in PSYCH 496, PSYCH 497, PSYCH 498, and PSYCH 499 may apply toward a baccalaureate degree.
Psychology^Proseminar in Psychology Proseminar in Psychology PSYCH 500 Proseminar in Psychology (1, max. 10) GreenwaldPresentations on professionally and practically useful topics by guest faculty presenters designed for first-year and second-year graduate students.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Animal Behavior Core Concepts in Animal Behavior PSYCH 502 Core Concepts in Animal Behavior (3) Barash, Beecher, SisnerosReading, reports, and discussion on animal behavior, with a focus on topics that lie at the interface of animal behavior, evolutionary science, neurobiology, and psychology. Includes social organization, mating systems, foraging, learning, communication, and agonistic behavior.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Behavior Genetics Core Concepts in Behavior Genetics PSYCH 503 Core Concepts in Behavior Genetics (4) ShodaOverview of current approaches to genetic analysis in psychology. Role of genetics in behavioral variation, and in regulating behavioral development. Techniques for quantifying genetic variation, behavioral effects of genes, and patterns of gene expression. Genetic effects on major behavioral differences.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Behavioral Neuroscience Core Concepts in Behavioral Neuroscience PSYCH 504 Core Concepts in Behavioral Neuroscience (3) Buck, Covey, Diaz, Kim, Mizumori, OlavarriaHistorical and contemporary perspectives in behavioral neuroscience. Current methodologies and research strategies. May include sensory processing, genetics, behavioral neuroendocrinology, developmental neural plasticity, neurobiology of learning and memory, lifespan perspectives on behavioral neurobiology, and psychopharmacology.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Neuroethology Core Concepts in Neuroethology PSYCH 505 Core Concepts in Neuroethology (3) SisnerosReviews the current topics and approaches to the study of the neurobiological basis of natural behaviors or "neurothology." Explores core concepts in the field of neuroethology and examines the role of the nervous system and the underlying neural circuits adapted for species-typical behaviors. Offered: AWSp.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Cognitive Neuroscience Core Concepts in Cognitive Neuroscience PSYCH 506 Core Concepts in Cognitive Neuroscience (3) Murray, OsterhoutCombines psychological models of information processing with research techniques in the biomedical sciences. Topics in vision, attention, memory, motor behavior, and language illustrate this integrative approach. Research methods include behavioral, single unit, lesion, and neuro-imaging techniques.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Cognitive Psychology Core Concepts in Cognitive Psychology PSYCH 507 Core Concepts in Cognitive Psychology (3) Bassok, MiyamotoSurvey of the major topics in human cognition. Discussion of memory, concepts and categories, language, decision-making, and problem solving.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Perception Core Concepts in Perception PSYCH 508 Core Concepts in Perception (3) LoftusCurrent topics in perception, psychophysics, sensory memory, pattern recognition, letter and word perception, and visual masking.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Social Psychology Core Concepts in Social Psychology PSYCH 510 Core Concepts in Social Psychology (4) Cheryan, Kaiser, ShodaAn overview of contemporary theories and research in social psychology, focusing on introducing graduate students to the field as practitioners of social psychological research.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Personality Core Concepts in Personality PSYCH 511 Core Concepts in Personality (3) Shoda, SmithReview of personality research. Roles of cognitive, affective, motivational, and psychodynamic processes. Critical evaluation of current personality, its antecedents, and its influences over behavior. Attention to role of personality variables in social relationships.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Biological Basis of Development Core Concepts in Biological Basis of Development PSYCH 513 Core Concepts in Biological Basis of Development (4)Embryological, genetic, physiological, and evolutionary perspectives of human development; biological development in infancy; sensory development and its influence on the development of perception; primate models for human development.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Early Cognitive and Linguistic Development Core Concepts in Early Cognitive and Linguistic Development PSYCH 514 Core Concepts in Early Cognitive and Linguistic Development (4) Meltzoff, SommervilleOrigins and early development of thought and language. Piagetian theory and modern-day revisions. In-depth examination of historical and philosophical bases for current empirical research.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Personality and Social Development Core Concepts in Personality and Social Development PSYCH 515 Core Concepts in Personality and Social Development (4)Theories and empirical literature in personality and social development throughout infancy, childhood.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Systems of Psychotherapy Core Concepts in Systems of Psychotherapy PSYCH 517 Core Concepts in Systems of Psychotherapy (3) GeorgeTheory and research of major systems of psychotherapy, including the psychodynamic, behavioral, cognitive, and family systems approaches as an introduction to subsequent practica in clinical psychology. Required for all graduate students majoring in clinical psychology.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Behavior Disorders Core Concepts in Behavior Disorders PSYCH 518 Core Concepts in Behavior Disorders (5) ZoellnerMajor types of behavior disorders, with emphasis on clinical manifestations, relevant research, and theoretical perspectives. Required for all graduate students majoring in clinical psychology.
Psychology^Core Concepts in Behavior Change Core Concepts in Behavior Change PSYCH 519 Core Concepts in Behavior Change (5) KohlenbergBehavioral theory and behavioral approaches to treatment.
Psychology^Laboratory in Statistical Computation I Laboratory in Statistical Computation I PSYCH 522 Laboratory in Statistical Computation I (2)Techniques of computation using statistical software on personal computers. Organization of data files, transformations of variables, graphical representations of data, descriptive statistics, elementary inferential statistical analyses.
Psychology^Laboratory in Statistical Computation II Laboratory in Statistical Computation II PSYCH 523 Laboratory in Statistical Computation II (2)Techniques of statistical computation using statistical software on personal computers and mainframe computers. Multiple regression, analysis of variance and covariance. Planned and post hoc comparisons and confidence intervals. Data analytic diagnostics for violations of regression assumptions.
Psychology^Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis PSYCH 524 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis (4)Basic concepts of statistical theory and methods of data analysis. Emphasis on the integration of statistical theory, statistical computation, and psychological research methods. Required of all first-year graduate students in psychology.
Psychology^Linear Models and Data Analysis Linear Models and Data Analysis PSYCH 525 Linear Models and Data Analysis (4)Analysis of data in the behavioral sciences. Required of all first-year graduate majors.
Psychology^Multivariate Statistics Multivariate Statistics PSYCH 526 Multivariate Statistics (4)An introduction to statistical modeling; interactive data analyses; use of regression, ANOVA, logistic regression, and log-linear models in explanatory studies.
Psychology^Mathematical Modeling for Psychology and the Neurosciences Mathematical Modeling for Psychology and the Neurosciences PSYCH 527 Mathematical Modeling for Psychology and the Neurosciences (3)Introduces a collection of mathematical models increasingly important to research in psychology and neuroscience, including random walks, differential equations, linear systems theory, Fourier analysis, nonlinear systems, and neural modeling. Topics illustrated by examples from recent literature.
Psychology^Practical Methods for Behavioral Research Practical Methods for Behavioral Research PSYCH 528 Practical Methods for Behavioral Research (4, max. 8) Greenwald, ShodaExamination of methodological, practical, and communication problems associated with research on human behavior. Topics include: selecting research problems, use of theory, types of validity, common sense about statistics, when to replicate, dealing with unpredicted results, strategies for presentation and publication. Offered: Sp.
Psychology^Advanced Research Methods Advanced Research Methods PSYCH 529 Advanced Research Methods (5)Surveys advanced clinical research methods not covered in the required statistics sequence. Examples include structural equation modeling, hierarchical linear modeling, growth curve modeling, and taxometric analyses. Hands-on experience gained through weekly assignments using each method.
Psychology^Introduction to Latent Variables Introduction to Latent Variables PSYCH 530 Introduction to Latent Variables (4) GreenwaldAnalyses techniques to assess effects of latent variables in presence of error in observed data. Provides experience with statistical tools for confirmatory structural equation modeling and testing of hypotheses concerning causal and other relations among latent variable.
Psychology^Research Methods in Clinical and Community Psychology Research Methods in Clinical and Community Psychology PSYCH 531 Research Methods in Clinical and Community Psychology (4) LenguaAddresses issues concerning the design and implementation of research in clinical and community psychology. Topics include validity; reliability; experimental, quasi-, and non-experimental designs; causal inference; interpretation of data; and research ethics. Provides students with tools to evaluate research, develop hypotheses, and design rigorous empirical studies. Offered: A.
Psychology^Single Subject Design and Research Single Subject Design and Research PSYCH 532 Single Subject Design and Research (3) KohlenbergSingle subject designs (reversal, multiple baseline, changing criterion) and their application to clinical cases.
Psychology^Scientific Writing in Psychology Scientific Writing in Psychology PSYCH 535 Scientific Writing in Psychology (5, max. 10)Addresses issues in scientific writing and publishing; laboratories assist with writing, and provide feedback on drafts of articles throughout the writing process. Students write a journal article to submit for publication. Other writing projects are also possible with instructor's permission.
Psychology^Grant Preparation in Psychology Grant Preparation in Psychology PSYCH 536 Grant Preparation in Psychology (3, max. 6) MizumoriPrepare and submit an application for a major national fellowship. Joint registration in PSYCH 598 with faculty adviser is required.
Psychology^Teaching of Psychology Teaching of Psychology PSYCH 537 Teaching of Psychology (3) PasserExamines issues concerning the teaching of psychology, including educational goals, course development, instructional methods, TA-student and TA-faculty relations, grading, student diversity, and problem situations. Assignments designed to enhance students' organizational, presentational, and problem-solving skills.
Psychology^Interactive Software for Psychological Research Interactive Software for Psychological Research PSYCH 538 Interactive Software for Psychological Research (4) Boynton, Fine, LoftusIntroduction to a variety of computing and programming skills with the goal of teaching how to design, program, and analyze experiments. Topics include principles of programming, the programming environment, presentation software, and data collection, management, and analysis.
Psychology^Advances in Psychology Advances in Psychology PSYCH 540 Advances in Psychology (3-5, max. 30)Intensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in psychology. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Advances in Animal Behavior Advances in Animal Behavior PSYCH 541 Advances in Animal Behavior (3-5, max. 30) Barash, Beecher, Brenowitz, Kyes, SisnersosIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in animal behavior. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Advances in Behavioral Neuroscience Advances in Behavioral Neuroscience PSYCH 542 Advances in Behavioral Neuroscience (3-5, max. 30) Buck, Covey, Diaz, Kim, Mizumori, OlavarriaIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in behavioral neuroscience. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Advances in Child Clinical Psychology Advances in Child Clinical Psychology PSYCH 543 Advances in Child Clinical Psychology (3-5, max. 30) King, LenguaIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in child clinical psychology.
Psychology^Advances in Clinical Psychology Advances in Clinical Psychology PSYCH 544 Advances in Clinical Psychology (3-5, max. 30) George, Kohlenberg, Linehan, Smith, ZoellnerIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in clinical psychology. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Advances in Cognition/Perception Advances in Cognition/Perception PSYCH 545 Advances in Cognition/Perception (3-5, max. 30) LoftusIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in cognition/perception.
Psychology^Advances in Developmental Psychology Advances in Developmental Psychology PSYCH 546 Advances in Developmental Psychology (1-5, max. 30) Kahn, Meltzoff, Repacholi, Smoll, SommervilleIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in developmental psychology. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Advances in Social/Personality Advances in Social/Personality PSYCH 547 Advances in Social/Personality (3-5, max. 30) Cheryan, Greenwald, Kaiser, ShodaIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in social psychology/personality. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Advances in Quantitative Psychology Advances in Quantitative Psychology PSYCH 548 Advances in Quantitative Psychology (3-5, max. 30) FlahertyIntensive readings from the current literature on an emerging topic or theoretical perspective in quantitative psychology. Student presentations and discussion.
Psychology^Seminar in Physiological Psychology Seminar in Physiological Psychology PSYCH 549 Seminar in Physiological Psychology (2) Diaz
Psychology^Seminar in Psychology Seminar in Psychology PSYCH 550 Seminar in Psychology (1-2, max. 30)Weekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Animal Behavior Seminar in Animal Behavior PSYCH 551 Seminar in Animal Behavior (1-2, max. 30) Barash, Beecher, Brenowitz, SisnerosWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Behavioral Neuroscience Seminar in Behavioral Neuroscience PSYCH 552 Seminar in Behavioral Neuroscience (1-2, max. 30) Buck, Covey, Diaz, Kenney, Mizumori, OlavarriaWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Child Clinical Psychology Seminar in Child Clinical Psychology PSYCH 553 Seminar in Child Clinical Psychology (1-2, max. 30) King, LenguaWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Clinical Psychology Seminar in Clinical Psychology PSYCH 554 Seminar in Clinical Psychology (1-2, max. 30) George, Kohlenberg, Linehan, Simoni, Smith, ZoellnerWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Cognition/Perception Seminar in Cognition/Perception PSYCH 555 Seminar in Cognition/Perception (1-2, max. 30) Bassok, Boynton, Buck, Fine, Kerr, Loftus, MurrayWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Developmental Psychology Seminar in Developmental Psychology PSYCH 556 Seminar in Developmental Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Meltzoff, Repacholi, SmollWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Social/Personality Seminar in Social/Personality PSYCH 557 Seminar in Social/Personality (1-2, max. 30) Brown, Cheryan, Greenwald, Kaiser, Leu, ShodaWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Seminar in Quantitative Psychology Seminar in Quantitative Psychology PSYCH 558 Seminar in Quantitative Psychology (1-2, max. 30) Flaherty, Little, MiyamotoWeekly meetings for discussion of current topics.
Psychology^Research Strategies Research Strategies PSYCH 560 Research Strategies (1-2, max. 30)Group discussions of problems and continuing strategies for ongoing and future research projects.
Psychology^Current Trends in Psychology Current Trends in Psychology PSYCH 561 Current Trends in Psychology (*, max. 30)
Psychology^Evolutionary Psychology of Gender, Mating, and Reproduction Evolutionary Psychology of Gender, Mating, and Reproduction PSYCH 562 Evolutionary Psychology of Gender, Mating, and Reproduction (3) Barash, Beecher, SisnerosReviews evidence for biological factors influencing human mating and reproductive behavior, through application of concepts and theory from animal behavior, behavioral genetics, and evolutionary biology. Offered: W.
Psychology^Developmental Psychology and the Human Relationship with Nature Developmental Psychology and the Human Relationship with Nature PSYCH 563 Developmental Psychology and the Human Relationship with Nature (4) KahnTheories of development used to investigate the ontogenesis of the human relationship with nature. An emphasis on social cognition, children's environmental moral reasoning, the effects of technology in children's lives, and evolutionary theory. Offered: W.
Psychology^Advanced Attitude Theory Advanced Attitude Theory PSYCH 564 Advanced Attitude Theory (5) GreenwaldTheoretical, methodological, and empirical work on the concept of attitude and its practical applications. Topics include: definition of attitude, measurement of attitudes, information-processing theories, functional theories, cognitive structure theories, the self as attitude object, unconscious attitudinal processes.
Psychology^Quantifying Brain Analysis Quantifying Brain Analysis PSYCH 565 Quantifying Brain Analysis (3)Covers concepts and applications of statistically unbiased methods for quantifying brain structure. Hands-on learning and application of concepts, sampling strategies and calculations for unbiased stereological measure of the size and number of various brain components.
Psychology^Neural Correlates of Perceptual Cognition Neural Correlates of Perceptual Cognition PSYCH 566 Neural Correlates of Perceptual Cognition (3) OlavarriaContribution of sensory systems to perceptual capabilities. Critical review of literature on the neural correlates of abilities such as sensory discrimination, subjective perception, attention, imagery, object and face recognition, and spatial behavior. Some sensory disabilities reviewed. Offered: W.
Psychology^Higher Order Cognition Higher Order Cognition PSYCH 567 Higher Order Cognition (3) BassokSurvey of research on higher-order cognition with an emphasis on theoretical accounts of knowledge representation. Topics include problem solving, inductive and deductive reasoning, hypothesis testing, causal inferences, similarity judgments, and categorization.
Psychology^Cognitive Approaches to Human Memory Cognitive Approaches to Human Memory PSYCH 568 Cognitive Approaches to Human Memory (3)Examination of current topics in human memory from the perspective of cognitive psychology. Offered: Sp.
Psychology^Child Clinical Psychology Child Clinical Psychology PSYCH 570 Child Clinical Psychology (4)Issues and content of child clinical psychology, promotion of student's beginning work in research.
Psychology^Child Psychopathology Child Psychopathology PSYCH 571 Child Psychopathology (5)Broad survey of major categories of child and adolescent disorders. Emphasis on scientific, empirical approach to description, classification, and research literature on these disorders. Required for all graduate students majoring in child clinical psychology.
Psychology^Approaches to Child Treatment Approaches to Child Treatment PSYCH 572 Approaches to Child Treatment (4)Major approaches to child psychotherapy, including specific applications, issues in treatment, and research.
Psychology^Psychological Assessment of Children Psychological Assessment of Children PSYCH 573 Psychological Assessment of Children (5)Assessment techniques appropriate to children, including those for infants, special problems of preschool and school-age children; projective tests, family interviews, and target observational assessment; training in administration of selected techniques.
Psychology^Community Psychology Community Psychology PSYCH 574 Community Psychology (4)Overview of key issues and concepts in the field of community psychology. History of field and overview of different models used to conceptualize system-level mental health issues and delivery systems. Emphasizes theory and research rather than intervention.
Psychology^Anxiety Disorders Anxiety Disorders PSYCH 575 Anxiety Disorders (3) ZoellnerGeneral topics related to primary anxiety disorders (panic, OCD, GAD, posttraumatic stress disorder, and specific phobias), including diagnosis, theory, and treatment.
Psychology^Assessment of Intelligence Assessment of Intelligence PSYCH 576 Assessment of Intelligence (5) King, LenguaCurrent theory and research on intelligence and intelligence testing; training in administration, scoring, and interpretation of major intelligence tests; ethical issues in assessment.
Psychology^Psychological Assessment Psychological Assessment PSYCH 577 Psychological Assessment (3)Provides a foundation in the theory underlying adult assessment as well as training in specific adult assessment techniques. Focuses on behavioral and cognitive assessment.
Psychology^Approaches to Psychological Assessment Approaches to Psychological Assessment PSYCH 578 Approaches to Psychological Assessment (4)Problem-solving approach to psychological assessment; review of psychological tests and procedures and presentation of approaches to their clinical interpretation and use. Required for all graduate students majoring in clinical and child-clinical psychology.
Psychology^Dialectical Behavior Therapy Skills Group Training Dialectical Behavior Therapy Skills Group Training PSYCH 579 Dialectical Behavior Therapy Skills Group Training (3) LinehanIn-depth learning of skills training component of dialectical behavior therapy, an empirically supported treatment approach for high risk clinical populations. Topics include skills in mindfulness, emotion regulation, interpersonal effectiveness and distress tolerance. Offered: A.
Psychology^Minority Mental Health Minority Mental Health PSYCH 580 Minority Mental Health (3) Barrett, George, SimoniSurveys topics on mental health and treatment of racial and ethnic minorities. Theory emphases include: models addressing ethnic identity, cross-cultural differences, models of culturally sensitive intervention. Practice emphases include unique psychotherapy strategies for: African-, Asian-, and Latino-Americans, and American Indians.
Psychology^Cross-Cultural Competency I Cross-Cultural Competency I PSYCH 581 Cross-Cultural Competency I (2) GeorgeFocuses on development of multicultural competence in the provision of psychological services to meet APA guidelines for ethnic, linguistic, and culturally diverse populations. Students address personal development, increase their knowledge of diverse groups, and study effective models of intervention in working with clients of diverse backgrounds.
Psychology^Cross-Cultural Competency II Cross-Cultural Competency II PSYCH 582 Cross-Cultural Competency II (2) GeorgeThird in the graduate multicultural-competence sequence. Focuses on American ethnic minorities, multiracial children and families, social action, and organizational development.
Psychology^Introduction to Dialectical Behavioral Therapy Introduction to Dialectical Behavioral Therapy PSYCH 583 Introduction to Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (3) LinehanIntroduces dialectical behavioral therapy, an empirically supported treatment approach for high risk clinical populations. Topics include mindfulness, dialectics, validation, behavioral therapy, and case conceptualization. Offered: A.
Psychology^Behavioral Methods: Clinical Interventions Behavioral Methods: Clinical Interventions PSYCH 584 Behavioral Methods: Clinical Interventions (3) LinehanProvides students with basic skills required for competent practice of cognitive and behavioral therapies. Topics include behavioral skills training, cognitive restructuring, contingency management, and exposure-based procedures.
Psychology^Methods in Suicide and Crisis Intervention Methods in Suicide and Crisis Intervention PSYCH 585 Methods in Suicide and Crisis Intervention (3) LinehanProvides a foundation for risk assessment and crisis intervention with suicidal individuals. Addresses risk factors for suicide across the age range, and methods for both behavioral interventions and crisis management with suicidal individuals. Also covers ethical issues. Offered: Sp.
Psychology^Clinical Personality Assessment Clinical Personality Assessment PSYCH 586 Clinical Personality Assessment (3) SmithUse of objective personality inventories in the description of normal and abnormal personality and use of such information in case conceptualization and treatment planning. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory.
Psychology^Clinical Methods: Interviewing Clinical Methods: Interviewing PSYCH 587 Clinical Methods: Interviewing (2) FaganProvides the foundation for developing good clinical skills. Enables students to conduct an initial clinical interview and generate a diagnostic formulation, problem list, and treatment plan after taking a complete history. Limited to and required of all second-year clinical psychology graduate students. Offered: A.
Psychology^Clinical Methods: Ethics Clinical Methods: Ethics PSYCH 588 Clinical Methods: Ethics (3) FaganEnables students to acquire a thorough working knowledge of the American Psychological Association's Ethical Standards for Psychologists; an awareness of Washington state law as it affects psychologists and a knowledge of how to identify and solve ethical dilemmas. Limited to and required of all second-year clinical psychology graduate students. Offered: W.
Psychology^Clinical Supervision Clinical Supervision PSYCH 589 Clinical Supervision (4, max. 100) George, King, Kohlenberg, Lengua, Linehan, Simoni, Smith, ZoellnerSupervised psychotherapy involving several individual clients. Separate consultations with instructor for intensive supervision of each case. Occasional meetings in small groups of instructors and students to discuss case material. Assigned readings appropriate to each case with opportunities to discuss these with instructor.
Psychology^Practicum in Psychological Assessment Practicum in Psychological Assessment PSYCH 590 Practicum in Psychological Assessment (2)Demonstration and practice of selected psychological test procedures and interviewing skills. Concurrent registration in PSYCH 576 or PSYCH 578 required. Required for all first-year graduate students majoring in clinical and child-clinical psychology.
Psychology^Issues in Clinical Psychology Issues in Clinical Psychology PSYCH 591 Issues in Clinical Psychology (1, max. 3) SmithPersonal and professional issues in clinical psychology. Required for all first-year graduate students majoring in clinical and child-clinical psychology.
Psychology^Clinical Practica and Colloquium Clinical Practica and Colloquium PSYCH 593 Clinical Practica and Colloquium (1-6, max. 99) FaganRequired of all clinical psychology graduate students seeing clients in the clinic. Clinical colloquium required of all second-year students, optional for others. Offered: AWS.
Psychology^Advanced Clinical Practicum Advanced Clinical Practicum PSYCH 594 Advanced Clinical Practicum (1-6, max. 55) Kohlenberg, Linehan, Smith, ZoellnerAdvanced supervised training in specific empirically supported treatment approaches. Each practicum provides intensive training in a specific treatment, such as dialectical behavior therapy, functional analytic psychotherapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, mindfulness-based relapse prevention, and exposure treatment for anxiety disorders.
Psychology^Advanced Teaching Practicum Advanced Teaching Practicum PSYCH 596 Advanced Teaching Practicum (2, max. 6)Supervised participation in graduate teaching.
Psychology^Fieldwork in Clinical Psychology Fieldwork in Clinical Psychology PSYCH 597 Fieldwork in Clinical Psychology (1-5, max. 36) George, King, Kohlenberg, Lengua, Linehan, Simoni, Smith, Zoellner
Psychology^Directed Reading in Psychology Directed Reading in Psychology PSYCH 598 Directed Reading in Psychology (*, max. 30)Selected topics.
Psychology^Directed Research in Psychology Directed Research in Psychology PSYCH 599 Directed Research in Psychology (1-3, max. 24)Supervised participation in research.
Medicine^Undergraduate Thesis Undergraduate Thesis MED 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*)
Medicine^P-Preceptorship in Medicine P-Preceptorship in Medicine MED 505 P-Preceptorship in Medicine (1, max. 12)To provide opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to gain personal experience with medical practice situations by being stationed with carefully selected clinical faculty members in their offices.
Medicine^HIV in Latinos HIV in Latinos MED 507 HIV in Latinos (1-, max. 12)Students shadow an attending physician, and participate in routine and acute visits for a primarily Spanish-speaking patient population. Includes Spanish-language health education and rapid HIV testing sessions, and encourages attendance at a community event targeting the Latino HIV community.
Medicine^Health Issues of Sexual Minorities Health Issues of Sexual Minorities MED 510 Health Issues of Sexual Minorities (1)Introduction to the special healthcare issues and barriers confronting persons identified as bisexual, gay, lesbian, or transgendered. Includes lectures, panels, and case presentations by faculty and community experts.
Medicine^Medicine as Culture Medicine as Culture MED 515 Medicine as Culture (1)Examines the ways that medical practice, the medical profession, and ideas about sickness and health are embedded in society and culture, as a way of contextualizing biological phenomena and medical knowledge.
Medicine^Introduction to Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine Introduction to Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine MED 525 Introduction to Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine (1)Introduces gerontology and geriatric medicine. Explores topics in geriatric medicine including: multidisciplinary care, dementia and delirium, falls, polypharmacy, urinary incontinence, fragility, and end-of-life care. Employs a combination of lectures, time spent interviewing and observing patients in hospital-based clinics, private homes, long term care and continuing retirement communities, and bedside teaching with a healthcare provider.
Medicine^AIDS: A Multidisciplinary Approach AIDS: A Multidisciplinary Approach MED 530 AIDS: A Multidisciplinary Approach (2) C. FARQUHARComprehensive overview of the public health, clinical, and laboratory aspects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and disease. Topics include the pathogenesis, natural history, and management of HIV infections; the impact of HIV/AIDS on community and global healthcare; and prospects for prevention and control. Offered: jointly with EPI 530/G H 562; A.
Medicine^P-Human Genetics P-Human Genetics MED 531 P-Human Genetics (*)Weekly seminar dealing with a variety of topics in medical genetics given by faculty of the Division of Medical Genetics and related departments and divisions. Open to medical students with a good foundation in genetics.
Medicine^P-Clinical Endocrinology P-Clinical Endocrinology MED 533 P-Clinical Endocrinology (2)Includes brief lectures followed by instructor-led interviews with patients to illustrate the clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of the major endocrinopathies. Students gain a greater appreciation of the impact these disorders have on patients' lives.
Medicine^Wilderness Medicine Wilderness Medicine MED 534 Wilderness Medicine (1)Provides training in medical emergencies and clinical situations unique to wilderness settings where access to medical care is limited. Students gain experience in patient assessment, extrication, and the management of common wilderness situations including altitude illness, burns, trauma, diving injuries, hypo- and hyperthermia, and toxin exposures. Offered: Sp.
Medicine^Introduction to Critical Care Medicine Introduction to Critical Care Medicine MED 536 Introduction to Critical Care Medicine (1)Uses a combination of didactics, time spent observing rounds and physicians on-call in the ICU as well as dedicated bedside teaching by a critical care attending physician to teach about core topics in pediatric and adult critical care medicine including shock, respiratory failure, sepsis, mechanical ventilation, and palliative care. Offered: W.
Medicine^Preventing Healthcare Associated Infections Preventing Healthcare Associated Infections MED 540 Preventing Healthcare Associated Infections (1)Multidisciplinary approach to understanding, measuring, and developing policy to prevent healthcare associated infections. Offered: jointly with EPI 505; W.
Medicine^Clinical Applications of Gene Therapy Clinical Applications of Gene Therapy MED 546 Clinical Applications of Gene Therapy (2)Overview of the current status of gene therapy. Discusses its role in the future practice of medicine. Lecture and literature reviews.
Medicine^Quantitative Methods in Medical Genetics Quantitative Methods in Medical Genetics MED 547 Quantitative Methods in Medical Genetics (2)Computational methods of use for medical genetics. Review of problem sets. Topics range from basic probability to linkage analysis.
Medicine^Clinical Medical Genetics Clinical Medical Genetics MED 549 Clinical Medical Genetics (1)Review of current clinical advances in medical genetics. Includes lectures and discussion of cases from medical genetics clinic.
Medicine^P-Mind, Body, and Pen: Writing and the Art of Becoming a Physician P-Mind, Body, and Pen: Writing and the Art of Becoming a Physician MED 555 P-Mind, Body, and Pen: Writing and the Art of Becoming a Physician (1)Provides forum for medical students to write about issues in medicine and medical education. Focuses on writing as a process for giving voice to the conflicting demands and dilemmas of becoming a physician. Explores personal narratives, dreams and disappointments, chronic illness and death, empathy and revulsion, authenticity and power. Offered: W.
Medicine^Visual Thinking: How to Observe in Depth Visual Thinking: How to Observe in Depth MED 556 Visual Thinking: How to Observe in Depth (1)Uses visual thinking strategies to look at art and enhance diagnostic acumen. Expands observational and critical thinking skills, and encourages open-ended discussion. Skills applied in assessing patients. Combination of slide sessions and observation of original objects at Seattle museums. Offered: A.
Medicine^Hispanic Health and Healthcare Disparities Hispanic Health and Healthcare Disparities MED 557 Hispanic Health and Healthcare Disparities (1) AcostaCovers Hispanic culture and language, history of Hispanics in the United States, Hispanic health status issues, and effective strategies for working across cultures and linguistic barriers. Designed to help the learner understand and respond better to the healthcare needs of the Hispanic community.
Medicine^P-Advanced Global Health P-Advanced Global Health MED 560 P-Advanced Global Health (2)Prepares health profession students for work in developing countries. Includes healthcare delivery systems, political, social, and economic determinants of health, major global health issues, and personal well-being while abroad. Lecture and seminar format with guest speakers, student presentations, and discussion. Offered: jointly with G H 505.
Medicine^Tropical Medicine Tropical Medicine MED 561 Tropical Medicine (1) F. BUCKNER, P. POTTINGERIntended for professional health science students interested in learning the pathophysiology, epidemiology, and clinical presentation of disease conditions that are more commonly seen in less-developed countries, resource-limited settings, or tropical climates, and how to diagnose, treat, and follow the resolution of these diseases with commonly limited resources. Offered: jointly with G H 561; Sp.
Medicine^P-The Healer's Art: Awakening the Heart of Medicine P-The Healer's Art: Awakening the Heart of Medicine MED 565 P-The Healer's Art: Awakening the Heart of Medicine (1)Encourages cultivation of human dimensions in practice of medicine while strengthening personal commitment to medicine as a life's work. Facilitates student recognition of commonality of personal concerns among peers and student response to the dimension of mystery in the experience of illness as well as development of the capacity for awe. Offered: Sp.
Medicine^P-Transfusion Machine P-Transfusion Machine MED 599 P-Transfusion Machine (3)Group discussions and didactic sessions cover broad category of transfusion medicine. Hands-on laboratory experience in red cell serology/compatibility, coagulation, and histocompatibility with emphasis on diagnosis and management of clinical problems. Based at Puget Sound Blood Center.
Astronomy^Astronomy Astronomy ASTR 101 Astronomy (5) NW, QSRIntroduction to the universe, with emphasis on conceptual, as contrasted with mathematical, comprehension. Modern theories, observations; ideas concerning nature, evolution of galaxies; quasars, stars, black holes, planets, solar system. Not open for credit to students who have taken ASTR 102 or ASTR 301; not open to upper-division students majoring in physical sciences or engineering. Offered: AWSpS.
Astronomy^Introduction to Astronomy Introduction to Astronomy ASTR 102 Introduction to Astronomy (5) NW, QSREmphasis on mathematical and physical comprehension of nature, the sun, stars, galaxies, and cosmology. Designed for students who have had algebra and trigonometry and high school or introductory-level college physics. Cannot be taken for credit in combination with ASTR 101 or ASTR 301. Offered: A.
Astronomy^Exploring the Moon Exploring the Moon ASTR 105 Exploring the Moon (5) NW SmithExamines the questions why did we go to the moon, what did we learn, and why do we want to go back. Offered: W.
Astronomy^Astrobiology: Life in the Universe Astrobiology: Life in the Universe ASTR 115 Astrobiology: Life in the Universe (5) NW R. BUICK, D. CATLING, V. MEADOWS, W. SULLIVANIntroduction to the new science of astrobiology, study of the origin and evolution of life on Earth, and the search for microbial and intelligent life elsewhere in the Universe. Designed for non-science, liberal arts majors. Offered: jointly with ASTBIO 115/BIOL 114/ESS 115/OCEAN 115.
Astronomy^The Planets The Planets ASTR 150 The Planets (5) NW, QSRFor liberal arts and beginning science students. Survey of the planets of the solar system, with emphases on recent space exploration of the planets and on the comparative evolution of the Earth and the other planets. Offered: AWSpS.
Astronomy^Introduction to Exoplanets Introduction to Exoplanets ASTR 160 Introduction to Exoplanets (3/5) NWIntroduction to exoplanets. Explores how studies of extrasolar planets have changed our views of how planets and planetary systems form and evolve. Examines the science behind the search for Earth-like planets and life beyond our Solar System. May not earn credit if credit earned in ASTR 419.
Astronomy^Modern Topics in Astronomy for Non-Science Majors Modern Topics in Astronomy for Non-Science Majors ASTR 190 Modern Topics in Astronomy for Non-Science Majors (3/5, max. 10) NWTopics of current interest, such as origin of chemical elements, novae and supernovae, white dwarfs, neutron stars, black holes, active galaxies, quasars, or interstellar medium and astrochemistry. Choice of topics depends on instructor and class interest.
Astronomy^Pre-Major in Astronomy Research Seminar Pre-Major in Astronomy Research Seminar ASTR 192 Pre-Major in Astronomy Research Seminar (3-5) NWIntroduction to astronomical computing and research methods for students interested in astronomy and in the premajor-in-astronomy program. Co-requisite: ASTR 102. Offered: A.
Astronomy^The Universe and the Origin of Life The Universe and the Origin of Life ASTR 201 The Universe and the Origin of Life (5) NW, QSRSequel to 101 or 102, emphasizing modern views of the atomic and molecular evolution of the universe from the initial "big bang" through the formation of the solar system and the emergence of biological forms on the earth. The latter part of the course considers questions about the existence of, and communication with, extraterrestrial intelligent life, and finally the ultimate fate of the cosmos.
Astronomy^Distance and Time: Size and Age in the Universe Distance and Time: Size and Age in the Universe ASTR 210 Distance and Time: Size and Age in the Universe (5) NW, QSRSpace and time as basic concepts in physical science. How we define and measure them, how the concepts have developed over the centuries, and how modern measurements allow us to determine the size and age of the universe.
Astronomy^The Universe and Change The Universe and Change ASTR 211 The Universe and Change (5) NW, QSRGravity as central to the form and evolution of the universe. Conceptual formulation of gravity from the Renaissance to Einstein. Its consequences from the falling of an apple to the slowing of the expansion of the universe. Offered: W.
Astronomy^Public Outreach in Astronomy Public Outreach in Astronomy ASTR 270 Public Outreach in Astronomy (3) VLPA/NWEmphasis on giving effective scientific presentations, developing and giving educational programs to school-age groups, and communicating knowledge of astronomy to others. Give talks at the Jacobsen Observatory on campus and presentations in the Astronomy Department's planetarium. Learn to operate a telescope and the planetarium equipment.
Astronomy^Introduction to Programming for Astronomical Applications Introduction to Programming for Astronomical Applications ASTR 300 Introduction to Programming for Astronomical Applications (2) QSR SmithIntroduction to programming needed for astronomical applications: Linux operating systems, PERL, IDL. Recommended for astronomy majors planning to take 400-level astronomy courses, to pursue individual research projects, or to apply for research experience for undergraduate appointments.
Astronomy^Astronomy for Scientists and Engineers Astronomy for Scientists and Engineers ASTR 301 Astronomy for Scientists and Engineers (3) NWIntroduction to astronomy for students in the physical sciences or engineering. Topics similar to ASTR 101, but the approach uses more mathematics and physics.
Astronomy^Science in Civilization: Physics and Astrophysics Since 1850 Science in Civilization: Physics and Astrophysics Since 1850 ASTR 313 Science in Civilization: Physics and Astrophysics Since 1850 (5) I&S/NWOrganization and pursuit of the physical and astrophysical sciences, focusing on the major unifying principles of physics and astronomy and the social and cultural settings in which they were created. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 313.
Astronomy^The Solar System The Solar System ASTR 321 The Solar System (3) NWSolar system; planetary atmospheres, surfaces and interiors, the moon, comets. The solar wind and interplanetary medium. Formation of the solar system.
Astronomy^The Contents of Our Galaxy The Contents of Our Galaxy ASTR 322 The Contents of Our Galaxy (3) NWIntroduction to astronomy. Basic properties of stars, stellar systems, interstellar dust and gas, and the structure of our galaxy.
Astronomy^Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology ASTR 323 Extragalactic Astronomy and Cosmology (3) NWGalaxies, optical and radio morphology and properties. Clusters of galaxies, radio sources, and quasars. Observational cosmology.
Astronomy^Undergraduate Research Seminar Undergraduate Research Seminar ASTR 400 Undergraduate Research Seminar (1) NWIntroduces research topics conducted by astronomy faculty. Each week a faculty member describes her/his current research and the opportunities available for interested majors to participate in the research. Offered: A.
Astronomy^Exoplanets Exoplanets ASTR 419 Exoplanets (3) NWExoplanet properties, discovery, and habitability. Examines the science involved in the search for Earth-like planets and life beyond our Solar System. Topics include: exoplanet environments, modelling exoplanet planetary systems, planetary habitability, detection, and properties of exoplanets. May not earn credit if credit earned in ASTR 160.
Astronomy^Stellar Observations and Theory Stellar Observations and Theory ASTR 421 Stellar Observations and Theory (3) NWObservations and theory of the atmospheres, chemical composition, internal structure, energy sources, and evolutionary history of stars.
Astronomy^High-Energy Astrophysics High-Energy Astrophysics ASTR 423 High-Energy Astrophysics (3) NWHigh-energy phenomena in the universe. Includes supernova, pulsars, neutron stars, x-ray and gamma-ray sources, black holes, cosmic rays, quasi stellar objects, active galactic nuclei, diffuse background radiations. Radiative emission, absorption processes, and models derived from observational data.
Astronomy^Cosmology Cosmology ASTR 425 Cosmology (3) QSR Agol, Connolly, QuinnStudies the universe as a whole. Overview of fundamental observations of cosmology and an introduction to general relativity. Examines theories of the past and future history of the universe, the nature of dark matter and dark energy, and the origin of ordinary matter on the large-scale structure.
Astronomy^Methods of Computational Astrophysics Methods of Computational Astrophysics ASTR 427 Methods of Computational Astrophysics (3) NW QuinnProvides hands-on experiences in writing computer programs to solve astrophysics problems. Topics include: interpolation and extrapolation, integration, ordinary, differential equations, root finding, optimization, linear algebra, Monte-Carlo partial differential equations, and parallel techniques.
Astronomy^Introduction to Astronomical Data Analysis Introduction to Astronomical Data Analysis ASTR 480 Introduction to Astronomical Data Analysis (5) NWHands-on experience with electronic imaging devices (CCDs) and software for image reduction and analysis. Introduction to operating systems, reduction software, and statistical analysis with applications to CCD photometry.
Astronomy^Introduction to Astronomical Observation Introduction to Astronomical Observation ASTR 481 Introduction to Astronomical Observation (5) NWTheory and practice of obtaining optical data at a telescope. Preparation, obtaining data with a CCD on a telescope, and subsequent data analysis for completion of a research project.
Astronomy^Writing Scientific Papers Writing Scientific Papers ASTR 482 Writing Scientific Papers (2) SzkodyPrinciples of organizing, developing, and writing resumes, scientific research papers for journals, and astronomy articles for general public interest.
Astronomy^Topics in Current Astronomy Topics in Current Astronomy ASTR 497 Topics in Current Astronomy (1-3, max. 9) NWRecent developments in one field of astronomy or astrophysics.
Astronomy^Independent Study Independent Study ASTR 498 Independent Study (1-3, max. 15) NWAstronomy-related projects supervised by a faculty member. Projects may be hardware, software, or library work in preparation for conducting astronomical research.
Astronomy^Practical Methods for Teaching Astronomy Practical Methods for Teaching Astronomy ASTR 500 Practical Methods for Teaching Astronomy (1-3, max. 5)Seminar in the preparation of lecture and workshop materials with emphasis on demonstration, visual aids, and the evaluation of students' progress.
Astronomy^Physical Foundations of Astrophysics I Physical Foundations of Astrophysics I ASTR 507 Physical Foundations of Astrophysics I (3)Thermodynamics from an astronomer's point of view: black body radiation, basic radiative transfer, equation of state, degenerate gases, crystallization at high density.
Astronomy^Physical Foundations of Astrophysics II Physical Foundations of Astrophysics II ASTR 508 Physical Foundations of Astrophysics II (3)Introduction to astronomical hydrodynamics and magnetohydrodynamics, basic theorems and application to stellar and interstellar magnetic fields. Introduction to plasma physics and waves in a plasma.
Astronomy^Physical Foundations of Astrophysics III Physical Foundations of Astrophysics III ASTR 509 Physical Foundations of Astrophysics III (3)Potential theory as applied to astrophysical systems. Orbits. Integrals of motion. Equilibrium and stability of stellar systems. Encounters of stellar systems. Kinetic theory of collisional systems. Applications of stellar dynamics to star clusters, galaxies, and large-scale structure.
Astronomy^Nuclear Astrophysics Nuclear Astrophysics ASTR 510 Nuclear Astrophysics (3)Big bang nucleosynthesis; nuclear reactions in stars; solar neutrinos and neutrino oscillations; core-collapse supernovae; nucleosynthesis in stars, novae, and supernovae; neutron starts; composition and sources of cosmic rays; gamma ray bursts; atmospheric neutrinos. Offered: jointly with PHYS 554; A.
Astronomy^Galactic Structure Galactic Structure ASTR 511 Galactic Structure (3)Kinematics, dynamics, and contents of the galaxy. Spiral structure. Structure and evolution of galaxies.
Astronomy^Extragalactic Astronomy Extragalactic Astronomy ASTR 512 Extragalactic Astronomy (3)Types of galaxies. Integrated properties, content, and dynamics. Extragalactic distance scale, groups and clusters. Radio sources. Observational cosmology.
Astronomy^Cosmology and Particle Astrophysics Cosmology and Particle Astrophysics ASTR 513 Cosmology and Particle Astrophysics (3)Big bang cosmology; relativistic world models and classical tests; background radiation; cosmological implications of nucleosynthesis; baryogenesis; inflation; galaxy and large-scale structure formation; quasars; intergalactic medium; dark matter.
Astronomy^Radiative Processes in Astrophysics Radiative Processes in Astrophysics ASTR 519 Radiative Processes in Astrophysics (3)Theory and applications of astrophysical radiation processes: transfer theory; thermal radiation; theory of radiation fields and radiation from moving charges; bremsstrahlung; synchrotron; Compton scattering; plasma effects.
Astronomy^Stellar Atmospheres Stellar Atmospheres ASTR 521 Stellar Atmospheres (3)Theory of continuous radiation and spectral line formation. Applications to the sun and stars.
Astronomy^Stellar Interiors Stellar Interiors ASTR 531 Stellar Interiors (4)Physical laws governing the temperature, pressure, and mass distribution in stars. Equation of state, opacity, nuclear energy generation, computational methods. Models of main sequence stars and star formation.
Astronomy^Stellar Evolution Stellar Evolution ASTR 532 Stellar Evolution (3)Theoretical and observational approaches to stellar evolution. Structure of red giants, supernovae, and white dwarfs. Observations of star clusters and the chemical composition of stars as they relate to the theory of stellar structure.
Astronomy^Interstellar Matter Interstellar Matter ASTR 541 Interstellar Matter (3)Physical conditions and motions of neutral and ionized gas in interstellar space. Interstellar dust, magnetic fields, formation of grains, clouds, and stars.
Astronomy^Planetary Atmospheres Planetary Atmospheres ASTR 555 Planetary Atmospheres (3)Problems of origin, evolution, and structure of planetary atmospheres, emphasizing elements common to all; roles of radiation, chemistry, and dynamical processes; new results on the atmospheres of Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and other solar system objects in the context of comparative planetology. Offered: jointly with ATM S 555/ESS 581.
Astronomy^Origin of the Solar System Origin of the Solar System ASTR 557 Origin of the Solar System (3)Nebular and nonnebular theories of the solar system origin; collapse from the interstellar medium, grain growth in the solar nebula, formation of planetesimals and planets, early evolution of the planets and other possible planetary systems; physical and chemical evidence upon which the ideas concerning the origin of the solar system are based. Offered: jointly with ESS 583.
Astronomy^High Energy Astrophysics High Energy Astrophysics ASTR 561 High Energy Astrophysics (3)Observed properties of supernovae, x-ray stars, radio sources, quasars. Theories explaining such objects. Origin of cosmic rays.
Astronomy^Seminar in Astronomy Seminar in Astronomy ASTR 575 Seminar in Astronomy (1-2, max. 20)Discussion of recent research in astronomy and astrophysics.
Astronomy^Astronomy Colloquium Astronomy Colloquium ASTR 576 Astronomy Colloquium (1, max. 20)Current research topics in astronomy and astrophysics.
Astronomy^Techniques in Optical Astronomy Techniques in Optical Astronomy ASTR 581 Techniques in Optical Astronomy (5)Theory and practice of obtaining optical data. Astronomical photoelectric photometers, spectrographs, interferometers, CCDs, and infrared equipment. Data-reduction techniques with emphasis on statistical analysis using digital computers. Observations with MRO thirty-inch telescope.
Astronomy^Topics in Observational Astrophysics Topics in Observational Astrophysics ASTR 597 Topics in Observational Astrophysics (1-5, max. 20)
Astronomy^Topics in Theoretical Astrophysics Topics in Theoretical Astrophysics ASTR 598 Topics in Theoretical Astrophysics (1-5, max. 20)
Astronomy^Advanced Astronomy Seminar Advanced Astronomy Seminar ASTR 599 Advanced Astronomy Seminar (1-3, max. 6)Practical exercises in astrophysics. Emphasis on methods and techniques of simulation, acquisition, evaluation, and analysis of observational data and its interpretation using models of astrophysical systems.
Earth Science^Dinosaurs Dinosaurs ESS 100 Dinosaurs (2) NWBiology, behavior, ecology, evolution, and extinction of dinosaurs, and a history of their exploration. With dinosaurs as focal point, course also introduces the student to how hypotheses in geological and paleobiological science are formulated and tested.
Earth Science^Introduction to Geological Sciences Introduction to Geological Sciences ESS 101 Introduction to Geological Sciences (5) NWSurvey of the physical systems that give the earth its form. Emphasizes the dynamic nature of interior and surface processes and their relevance to mankind and stresses the value of rocks and earth forms in the understanding of past events. A course with laboratory for non-science majors. Not open for credit to students who have taken ESS 105, or ESS 210. Field trips. Offered: AWSp.
Earth Science^Space and Space Travel Space and Space Travel ESS 102 Space and Space Travel (5) I&S/NWExplores the sun, solar storms, observations from space and from Earth; Earth's space environment, radiation belts and hazards, plasma storms and auroras, rockets and propulsion, human exploration efforts, societal impact, planetary systems and resources, and project highlighting space and its exploration. Open to non-majors. Offered: AWSp.
Earth Science^Minerals and Gems Minerals and Gems ESS 103 Minerals and Gems (3) NWIntroduction to the nature of minerals: composition, structure, physical properties, and origins, with emphasis on gem minerals. Focuses on topics of particular interest in gemology, such as mechanisms of color, history and lore of gems, and uses of gems. Hands-on laboratories using about one hundred representative gems and minerals.
Earth Science^Prehistoric Life Prehistoric Life ESS 104 Prehistoric Life (3) NWFossils and how they are preserved. What fossils tell us about past life and environments. How the history of life unfolded and what caused the great events in biological evolution. Open to non-science majors, but also lays a foundation for higher-level geobiology courses.
Earth Science^The Earth: Its Processes and Hazards The Earth: Its Processes and Hazards ESS 105 The Earth: Its Processes and Hazards (5) NWIntroduction to physical and environmental geology. Focuses on both large-scale tectonics forces that create Earth's continents and oceans, and surficial forces that shape Earth's landscapes. Emphasizes processes that endanger human populations (such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and floods). Not open for credit to students who have taken ESS 101.
Earth Science^Living with Volcanoes Living with Volcanoes ESS 106 Living with Volcanoes (3) I&S/NWExplores volcanoes and volcanic eruptions on Earth and in the solar system. Examines how volcanoes work and how they affect the environment, life, and human societies. Illustrates principles using local examples of recent volcanism and ancient examples of mega-eruptions. Evaluates the possibility of predicting future eruptions.
Earth Science^Astrobiology: Life in the Universe Astrobiology: Life in the Universe ESS 115 Astrobiology: Life in the Universe (5) NW R. BUICK, D. CATLING, V. MEADOWS, W. SULLIVANIntroduction to the new science of astrobiology, study of the origin and evolution of life on Earth, and the search for microbial and intelligent life elsewhere in the Universe. Designed for non-science, liberal arts majors. Offered: jointly with ASTBIO 115/ASTR 115/BIOL 114/OCEAN 115.
Earth Science^Introduction to Laboratories Introduction to Laboratories ESS 119 Introduction to Laboratories (1, max. 3)Reviews research being performed in visited and independent research opportunities and possibilities. Includes weekly visits to labs in ESS and related fields.
Earth Science^The Earth System and Climate The Earth System and Climate ESS 201 The Earth System and Climate (5) NWEarth's dynamic environment, global energy balance, interplay of chemical, physical, and biological processes shaping the Earth's surface and climate. Emphasis on quantitative methods for measuring, evaluating, and understanding contemporary changes relative to the last several thousand years.
Earth Science^Earthquakes Earthquakes ESS 202 Earthquakes (5) I&S/NWEarthquakes of the Pacific Northwest and around the world - their cause and relationship to plate tectonics; why, where, and when they occur. How earthquakes affect human life: shaping landscape, hazards. Laboratory explores physical processes associated with earthquakes. One field trip. Open to non-science majors.
Earth Science^Glaciers and Global Change Glaciers and Global Change ESS 203 Glaciers and Global Change (5) I&S/NWExplores how glaciers record climate change and human activities through bubbles of ancient air and trace impurities in the ice. Also reviews glaciers impact on societies through sea-level, coastlines, water supplies, and transportation routes. Open to non-science majors.
Earth Science^The Paleobiology and Geobiology of Mass Extinctions The Paleobiology and Geobiology of Mass Extinctions ESS 204 The Paleobiology and Geobiology of Mass Extinctions (3-4) NW P. WARDCovers the origin and diversification of life on Planet Earth, and abrupt die-offs in mass extinctions. Explores how new instrumentation and experimentation in biology and chemistry, and improved sampling of the fossil record in geology, combine with astrobiology and geobiology to revise out history of Earth and its life.
Earth Science^Access to Space Access to Space ESS 205 Access to Space (5) NWGroup development of student experiments to the outer rim of our atmosphere and the beginning of space; investigation of stratosphere, mesosphere, thermosphere, magnetosphere, development of exploration packages; basic electronic fabrication, global positioning, radio tracking, expectations at high altitudes. Open to all disciplines. No previous experience of electronics required.
Earth Science^Interdisciplinary Earth Sciences Field Seminar Interdisciplinary Earth Sciences Field Seminar ESS 209 Interdisciplinary Earth Sciences Field Seminar (3-12, max. 12) NWMiscellaneous field-based and experiential learning activities in earth and space sciences.
Earth Science^Physical Geology Physical Geology ESS 210 Physical Geology (5) NWIntroduction to the physical and chemical processes of the earth's surface and interior. Plate tectonics, earthquakes, volcanism, glaciation. Optional field trips to Cascades and Olympics. Background in geology not required but science background desirable. Not open for credit to students who have taken ESS 101.
Earth Science^Physical Processes of the Earth Physical Processes of the Earth ESS 211 Physical Processes of the Earth (5) NWOverview of Earth. Deformation of soil, sediment, and rock. Erosional and depositional processes and landforms. Seismicity and plate-tectonics. Structural, geomorphic, and climatic interactions in major tectonic regimes. Use of stereonets, air photos, geologic maps, and cross sections. Two one-day field excursions.
Earth Science^Earth Materials and Processes Earth Materials and Processes ESS 212 Earth Materials and Processes (5) NWCrystallography, crystal chemistry, and characteristics of rock-forming and ore minerals. Description, phase equilibria, origin, and associations of igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks. Laboratory study of hand specimens. Two one-day field excursions.
Earth Science^Evolution of the Earth Evolution of the Earth ESS 213 Evolution of the Earth (5) NWIntroduction to paleontology, types of stratigraphy, and radiometric dating. The physical, chemical, biological, and plate tectonic evolution of the earth's crust, seawater, and atmosphere. Comparison with other planets. Climate changes and man as a geologic agent. Two one-day field excursions.
Earth Science^Rivers and Beaches Rivers and Beaches ESS 230 Rivers and Beaches (3/5) NWIntroduction to Earth surface environments, the processes that shape them, how humans affect them and are affected by them. Weekend field trips examine mountains, rivers, deltas/estuaries, beaches, and environments beyond. Focus on linkages between these environments to illustrate coupling between landscapes and seascapes. Offered: jointly with OCEAN 230.
Earth Science^Geology of the Northwest Geology of the Northwest ESS 301 Geology of the Northwest (5) NWGeologic history of Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. Emphasis on use of geologic principles in interpreting evidence found in landscapes and rocks. Weekend field trips optional.
Earth Science^Great Ice Age Great Ice Age ESS 302 Great Ice Age (5) NWGrowth of mile-thick ice sheets, worldwide lowering of sea level, and other geological and paleoclimatological changes that accompany the harsh environments of a global glaciation. Geology of the last three million years, focusing on the causes and effects of global glaciation and future climate change.
Earth Science^Volcanoes and Glaciers of the Pacific Northwest Volcanoes and Glaciers of the Pacific Northwest ESS 304 Volcanoes and Glaciers of the Pacific Northwest (5) NWIntroduction to volcanic and glacial processes, emphasizing examples in the Pacific Northwest. Volcanic products, landforms, hazards, prediction, and history. Relationship to tectonics. Nature and distribution of present and former glaciers in Washington. Two all-day Saturday field trips to Cascade volcanoes required.
Earth Science^Geology of the National Parks Geology of the National Parks ESS 305 Geology of the National Parks (5) NWReviews a wide range of fundamental geological processes, using North American parks and monuments as examples of natural laboratories. Includes plate-tectonic history, volcanism, mountain-building, and glacial, fluvial, and a host of other geomorphic forces as preserved in geologic exposures of National Parks.
Earth Science^Planetary Geology Planetary Geology ESS 306 Planetary Geology (5) NWUp-to-date survey of geological features and processes on and within planets and their moons deduced from sampling, remote sensing, spacecraft imagery, and theory. Comparative discussion of volcanism, tectonics, surface processes, and thermal evolution. Examination of moon rocks and meteorites.
Earth Science^Mathematical Methods in the Earth Sciences Mathematical Methods in the Earth Sciences ESS 310 Mathematical Methods in the Earth Sciences (5) NW RoePresents mathematical methods for Earth Sciences applications. Focuses on setting up equations and on the quality of written solutions.
Earth Science^Geomechanics Geomechanics ESS 311 Geomechanics (5) NWIntroduction to continuum mechanics: elasticity, fluid dynamics, diffusion, porous flow, multiphase flow, dimensional analysis, and natural convection. Example applications: earthquakes and rock mechanics, flow of glaciers, slope stability, debris flows, groundwater flow, contaminant transport, flow in rivers and channels, mantle and magma convection.
Earth Science^Geochemistry Geochemistry ESS 312 Geochemistry (5) NWGeochemical concepts essential to earth science studies. Crystal chemistry and elemental affinities, thermodynamics of geologic processes, trace element and isotopic fractionation, weathering, cosmochemistry, and exploration of basic global geochemical cycles. Laboratory exercises explore the dynamics of geochemical processes.
Earth Science^Geobiology Geobiology ESS 313 Geobiology (5) NWIntroduction to the early record of life on earth. Environmental factors leading to life's diversification. The role of life in biomineralization. The history of biodiversity. The role of life in landform and soil formation. Laboratory exercises demonstrate specimens and techniques.
Earth Science^Geophysics: Expedition to Planet Earth Geophysics: Expedition to Planet Earth ESS 314 Geophysics: Expedition to Planet Earth (5) NWSurvey of fundamental geophysics using an investigative approach. Examines how a future expedition of extraterrestrial humanoids could use geophysical data, physical principles, and mathematical techniques to decide whether they should colonize Earth and understand why the indigenous civilization became extinct.
Earth Science^Environmental Earth Science Environmental Earth Science ESS 315 Environmental Earth Science (5) NWAnalysis of geologic constraints upon human activity and the environmental consequences of such activity. Topics include hillslope processes, fluvial and groundwater processes, earthquake and volcanic hazards, and environmental aspects of deforestation and atmospheric pollution.
Earth Science^Geomorphology Geomorphology ESS 326 Geomorphology (5) NWIntroduction to landforms and surficial deposits. Emphasis on landscape-forming processes. Intended for students who wish to take additional courses in geomorphology.
Earth Science^The Environment of Fuel and Mineral Deposits The Environment of Fuel and Mineral Deposits ESS 345 The Environment of Fuel and Mineral Deposits (3) I&S/NWFuels and nonmetallic ores as the substrate of industrial civilization. Provides non-majors with sufficient information about these resources to allow for informed decisions of related geological, environmental, and societal issues.
Earth Science^Field Geology Field Geology ESS 400 Field Geology (12) NWSix weeks of geologic mapping in a variety of rock types in the Western United States. Enhances students' knowledge of geologic phenomena and processes. Development of skills in mapping, field interpretation, and report writing. Students responsible for own living expenses while in the field.
Earth Science^Regional Geology of the Pacific Northwest Regional Geology of the Pacific Northwest ESS 401 Regional Geology of the Pacific Northwest (3) NWExplores the geological diversity of the Pacific Northwest temporally (Archean to Pleistocene), tectonically (craton, terranes, and cover sequences), and lithologically (ophiolites to coal). Three weekend field trips required.
Earth Science^International Field Geology International Field Geology ESS 402 International Field Geology (3-12, max. 12) NWSupervised.geological field work in classic, instructive international sites. Venue varies from year to year. Work may include geologic mapping, construction of cross sections, measurement and analysis of stratigraphic sections, field excursion, and supervised individual research projects.
Earth Science^Global Tectonics Global Tectonics ESS 403 Global Tectonics (5) NWIntroduction to large-scale plate tectonics processes and observations including motions on a sphere, polar-wander paths, plate-boundary seismicity, focal mechanisms, gravity, magnetics, and heat flow. Also includes observations and theories of plate deformation and continental dynamics with emphasis on Western North America.
Earth Science^Earth Sciences for Middle and High School Science Teachers: Solid Earth Earth Sciences for Middle and High School Science Teachers: Solid Earth ESS 406 Earth Sciences for Middle and High School Science Teachers: Solid Earth (3) NWTopics of contemporary interest selected to meet state academic standards. Topics include Pacific Northwest earthquakes and volcanoes, global and regional plate tectonics, history of the Earth, the Earth's interior, planetary geology, and surface processes on the Earth. Does not count toward the ESS degree.
Earth Science^Great Geological Issues Great Geological Issues ESS 408 Great Geological Issues (3) NWHistory and development of geological and paleontological theories and controversies; philosophy and methodology that have driven scientific inquiry in the earth sciences. Offered: A.
Earth Science^Marine Geology and Geophysics Marine Geology and Geophysics ESS 410 Marine Geology and Geophysics (4) NWExplores the geological and geophysical processes that form and shape the ocean basins and continental margins.
Earth Science^Geophysical Continuum Mechanics Geophysical Continuum Mechanics ESS 411 Geophysical Continuum Mechanics (5) NWAnalysis of stress and strain. Measurement and interpretation of strain in geological materials. Elasticity applied to determine stress in the Earth's lithosphere. Creep of solids and flow of geological materials.
Earth Science^Introduction to Seismology Introduction to Seismology ESS 412 Introduction to Seismology (3) NWExamines stress and strain, the wave equation, travel times, amplitude and phase, reflection seismology, surface waves, and source theory, including moment tensors, radiation patterns, far-field wave shapes, source spectra, stress drop, and magnitude.
Earth Science^Geophysics: The Earth Geophysics: The Earth ESS 413 Geophysics: The Earth (3) NWThe Earth and its interior; gravity, magnetism, heat flow, seismology. Earth's outer structure, studied through the unifying concepts of plate tectonic theory. Quantitative approaches to problems, using techniques of classical physics.
Earth Science^Geophysics: Fluids Geophysics: Fluids ESS 414 Geophysics: Fluids (3) NWIntroduction to geophysical fluid dynamics. An overview of fluids in geophysics with emphasis on the oceans. A nonrigorous development of the equations of motion with examples drawn from oceanography and solid earth geophysics.
Earth Science^Space and Plasmas Space and Plasmas ESS 415 Space and Plasmas (3) NWSurvey of various phenomena occurring in outer regions of Earth's atmosphere, ionosphere, magnetosphere, and Van Allen radiation belts. Laboratory applications include plasma thrusters and fusion. Concepts include charged particles in magnetic fields, drift motion, plasma, magnetohydrodynamic waves.
Earth Science^Geophysics: The Atmosphere Geophysics: The Atmosphere ESS 416 Geophysics: The Atmosphere (3) NWPhenomena of the lower atmosphere: some simple applications of the principles of classical thermodynamics, fluid dynamics, and radiative transfer to the atmospheric hydrological cycle, global energy balance, and atmospheric dynamics and climate.
Earth Science^Geoscience Communication Geoscience Communication ESS 418 Geoscience Communication (4)Covers principles of organizing, developing, and writing geoscience information including abstracts, presentations, scientific articles, correspondences, and proposals. Reviews writing conventions, use of illustrations, style, and tone. Prerequisite. 5 credits of composition; two of ESS 201, ESS 211; ESS 212, and ESS 213, any of which may be taken concurrently. Offered: WSp.
Earth Science^Introduction to Geological Geographic Information Systems Introduction to Geological Geographic Information Systems ESS 420 Introduction to Geological Geographic Information Systems (5) WaltersExamines principles of GISA applied to the geological sciences. Covers basics of GIScience, data types, and GIS analyses. Includes hands-on analysis applied to geologic patterns and phenomena: sources geological data; geological mapping; measures of topography; hydrologic flow patterns; and topics of the students' own interests.
Earth Science^Introduction to Geological Remote Sensing Introduction to Geological Remote Sensing ESS 421 Introduction to Geological Remote Sensing (4) NWPrinciples of image interpretation for geologists. Study of land forms, structure, lithology, surface processes using aircraft and satellite data. Use of digital multispectral images and radar images for geological mapping.
Earth Science^Intermediate Spectral Remote Sensing Intermediate Spectral Remote Sensing ESS 422 Intermediate Spectral Remote Sensing (4) NWExplores spectral image processing with ENVI software, used in individualized projects involving satellite or aircraft images. Emphasis on integration of remote sensing and field measurement using process models and Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
Earth Science^Water in the Environment Water in the Environment ESS 424 Water in the Environment (3) NWDiscusses the unique physical and chemical properties of the water molecule in relation to the atmospheric greenhouse effect, precipitation formation, oceanic circulations, infiltration of water through soils, geyser eruptions, and glacier and sea ice thickness.
Earth Science^Fluvial Geomorphology Fluvial Geomorphology ESS 426 Fluvial Geomorphology (5)Hydraulic and morphological characteristics of streams and valley floors. Landscape evolution by stream erosion and deposition. Field exercises emphasize quantitative analysis of fluvial processes, channel forms, acquisition of various skills, such as mapping, topographic surveying, report writing.
Earth Science^Hillslope Geomorphology Hillslope Geomorphology ESS 427 Hillslope Geomorphology (5) NWTheoretical, laboratory, and field study of hillslope evolution by mass wasting and water erosion.
Earth Science^Principles of Glaciology Principles of Glaciology ESS 431 Principles of Glaciology (4) NWCovers snow deposition and metamorphism, avalanches, heat and mass balance at snow and ice surfaces, glacier flow, ice sheets, sea ice, permafrost, methods of paleoclimate reconstruction, Ice Age theories.
Earth Science^Glacial Geology Glacial Geology ESS 432 Glacial Geology (5) NWInterpretation of glacial environments and history through study of sediments and landforms. The laboratory component is largely field based and visits some spectacular glaciated landscapes. Provides students an experiential learning approach to the field as well as an opportunity to conduct independent research.
Earth Science^Environmental Change in the Glacial Ages Environmental Change in the Glacial Ages ESS 433 Environmental Change in the Glacial Ages (5) NWPhysical, biological evidence of climatic change during Quaternary Period; emphasizing stratigraphy, chronology. Impact of alternating glacial/interglacial cycles on earth's terrestrial, marine environments. Theories on causes of climatic variation.
Earth Science^Glacial-Periglacial Geomorphology NW Glacial-Periglacial Geomorphology NW ESS 435 Glacial-Periglacial Geomorphology NW (3) NW HalletIntroduces glacial processes that shape mountainous and polar regions, creating a wealth of characteristic landforms; and periglacial processes that profoundly impact nearly twenty percent of the land surface of the plant and Mars through frost action and thermal fluctuations.
Earth Science^Mineralogy Mineralogy ESS 437 Mineralogy (5) NWSymmetry of crystals and crystal structures. Rules of crystal chemistry. Microscopic, diffraction, and spectroscopic techniques of mineral characterization. Transformation processes in minerals: order-disorder, phase transition, and exsolution. Crystal chemistry and phase relations. Reactions on mineral surfaces. Physical properties, deformation, and creep.
Earth Science^Petrology of Igneous Rocks Petrology of Igneous Rocks ESS 439 Petrology of Igneous Rocks (5) NWSystematic study of the major families of volcanic and plutonic igneous rocks with emphasis on tectonic setting, phase relations, geochemistry, and models of their origin and evolution throughout geologic time. Laboratory emphasizes thin-section study of rocks using transmitted and reflected light.
Earth Science^Petrography and Petrology of Metamorphic Rocks Petrography and Petrology of Metamorphic Rocks ESS 440 Petrography and Petrology of Metamorphic Rocks (5) NWMineralogy, textures, and origins of metamorphic rocks; metamorphic facies and metamorphic phase equilibria; controls of metamorphism.
Earth Science^Petrology and Petrography of Sedimentary Rocks Petrology and Petrography of Sedimentary Rocks ESS 441 Petrology and Petrography of Sedimentary Rocks (5) NWMineralogy, textures, and origin of sedimentary rocks, using petrographic microscope.
Earth Science^Geology of Ore Deposits Geology of Ore Deposits ESS 445 Geology of Ore Deposits (5) NWThe geologic principles, environmental aspects, and exploration strategies of selected types of metallic and nonmetallic ore deposits and coal.
Earth Science^Engineering Geology: Methods and Application Engineering Geology: Methods and Application ESS 447 Engineering Geology: Methods and Application (4)Applies the application of geologic principles to geotechnical and environmental problems; includes investigation and characterization of soil and rock properties. Includes two weekend field trips.
Earth Science^Paleobiology Paleobiology ESS 450 Paleobiology (3) NWBiological evolution over the past 500 million years, considering how the reciprocal interactions between environment and evolution have influenced the major episodes in life's history and providing a background for assessing the evolutionary impact of modern environmental change.
Earth Science^Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Paleontology ESS 451 Invertebrate Paleontology (5) NWImportant larger invertebrate groups; morphology, classification, stratigraphic distribution, evolution, paleoecology. Offered: jointly with BIOL 451.
Earth Science^Vertebrate Paleontology Vertebrate Paleontology ESS 452 Vertebrate Paleontology (5) NW C. SIDORExamines fossil vertebrate life, focusing on systematics and morphology of major lineages (fish, reptiles, bird, and early mammal relatives). Examines fossil and modern vertebrates from the Burke Museum collection in the lab. Weekend field trip.
Earth Science^Fossil Mammals Fossil Mammals ESS 453 Fossil Mammals (5) NWEvolutionary relationships of fossil mammals, from mammal-like reptiles of late Paleozoic to diverse Cenozoic groups. Morphology, adaptations, extinctions, evolutionary patterns. Structures and relationships of most major groups. Field trip.
Earth Science^Hydrogeology Hydrogeology ESS 454 Hydrogeology (4) NWCovers the analysis of groundwater flow systems, geologic controls, and hydrologic properties; basics of chemistry and solute transport in groundwater; and the use of numerical models. Considers local examples and groundwater resource management.
Earth Science^Stratigraphy Stratigraphy ESS 455 Stratigraphy (4) NWSystematic study of stratified rocks and space-time implications. Principles of stratigraphy, including biostratigraphy, magnetostratigraphy, seismic stratigraphy, subsurface analysis. Basin analysis, evolution of sedimentary basins and continental margins.
Earth Science^Depositional Environments Depositional Environments ESS 456 Depositional Environments (4) NWPrinciples of sedimentary facies analysis, including survey of modern processes that produce sedimentary sequences. Recognition of various depositional environments represented in the geologic record, including terrestrial, marine terrigenous, and carbonate environments. Two field trips required.
Earth Science^Environmental Geochemistry Environmental Geochemistry ESS 457 Environmental Geochemistry (4) NWExamines the geochemistry of natural waters, emphasizing applications in geological and soil sciences. Topics include soil/ground water composition; weathering and the carbon cycle; equilibrium computer modeling; colloids and clay minerals; organic geochemistry of water and soil; and groundwater quality. Experience with geochemical instrumentation.
Earth Science^Environmental Isotope Geology Environmental Isotope Geology ESS 459 Environmental Isotope Geology (3) NWThe geochemistry of stable isotopes. Topics include the theory of isotope fractionation, application of isotopes in earth surface processes, climate, and biogeochemical cycles. Includes extensive laboratory experience.
Earth Science^Cosmogenic Nuclides in Geomorphology Cosmogenic Nuclides in Geomorphology ESS 460 Cosmogenic Nuclides in Geomorphology (3) NWUse of cosmic-ray-produced nuclides to date rock surfaces and analyze geomorphic processes. Nuclide production by cosmic radiation above and below ground; tracer methods; exposure dating; coupling of cosmogenic nuclide data to geomorphic models. Open to undergraduate students only.
Earth Science^Geological Time Geological Time ESS 461 Geological Time (3) NWPrinciples of radiometric dating. Methods applicable to Earth history from planetary formation to the recent past. Radiocarbon dating; geological dating with long-lived isotopes; uranium series, trapped charge and cosmogenic isotope techniques. Applications in archaeology, climate change, geomorphology, tectonics, and Earth evolution.
Earth Science^Volcanic Processes Volcanic Processes ESS 462 Volcanic Processes (4) NWPre-eruption, eruption, and post-eruption processes. Examines triggers of magma ascent, controls on volatile build-up and loss, magma fragmentation, magma-groundwater interaction, eruption column dynamics, gravity-controlled eruptive phenomena, syn- and post-eruption lahars and other re-working of deposits.
Earth Science^Structure and Tectonics Structure and Tectonics ESS 463 Structure and Tectonics (5) NWGeometry, kinematics, and tectonic setting of major types of structures, including those in contractional fold-and-thrust belts; extended crust; strike-slip-dominated regimes; and shear zones. Laboratory exercises develop basic tools of structural geology.
Earth Science^Seismology and Earthquake Engineering Seismology and Earthquake Engineering ESS 465 Seismology and Earthquake Engineering (3) NWPresents an overview of earthquake processes and details of the characteristics of destructive ground motion; illustrates the effects of such motion on engineering structures; reviews current practice in estimating earthquake hazards for important structures such as nuclear power plants.
Earth Science^Seismic Exploration Seismic Exploration ESS 467 Seismic Exploration (5) NWIntroduction to theory and practice of seismic exploration. Application of refraction and reflection techniques to problems in engineering geology and mineral exploration. Constraints in the interpretation of subsurface structure.
Earth Science^Introduction to Space Physics Introduction to Space Physics ESS 471 Introduction to Space Physics (3) NWIntroduces several areas of space physics, the physical principles that apply therein, and the methods by which significant observations are made. Covers electromagnetic and plasma processes from the center of the sun to the surface of the earth.
Earth Science^Rockets and Instrumentation Rockets and Instrumentation ESS 472 Rockets and Instrumentation (2-4, max. 12)Students launch science payloads to high altitude using high power amateur rockets, providing design, fabrication, test, integration, and management experience; covers science motivation, engineering aspects, and delivery systems. Project may vary each year. Offered: AW.
Earth Science^Current Research in Climate Science Seminar Current Research in Climate Science Seminar ESS 475 Current Research in Climate Science Seminar (3, max. 6)Weekly lectures focusing on a particular aspect of climate from invited speakers, complemented by class discussion, readings, and final paper. Promotes interdisciplinary understanding of climate concepts.
Earth Science^Advanced Methods in Isotope Geochemistry Advanced Methods in Isotope Geochemistry ESS 480 Advanced Methods in Isotope Geochemistry (3, max. 18) NW Huntington, SteigStudies new developments in isotope geochemistry. Topics vary by quarter and may include clumped isotopes, triple-oxygen isotopes, rate isotopes, mass-independent fractionation, and their incorporation into Earth system models. Introduces theory, measurement, and applications to processes in Earth, ocean, atmospheric, planetary, and climate science.
Earth Science^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar ESS 489 Honors Seminar (3)Covers current scientific topics in earth and space sciences; philosophy and methodology of science strategies for developing research projects; scientific education and career planning. May require colloquium or local conference attendance. Offered: A.
Earth Science^Special Topics Special Topics ESS 490 Special Topics (1-10, max. 20) NW
Earth Science^Undergraduate Teaching Experience and Outreach Undergraduate Teaching Experience and Outreach ESS 492 Undergraduate Teaching Experience and Outreach (1-3, max. 12) NWDesigned to help undergraduate majors acquire effective teaching skills at the college and public school level. Teaching experience gained through assisting graduate student teaching assistant or K-12 public school outreach. Involves classroom teaching experience and improving communications and presentation skills.
Earth Science^NASA Science and Engineering Research Seminar NASA Science and Engineering Research Seminar ESS 495 NASA Science and Engineering Research Seminar (1, max. 4) NWReview of current space science-related research. Emphasis varies, but topics may include planetary geology, astronomy, global change, aeronautical engineering, and remote sensing.
Earth Science^Undergraduate Thesis Undergraduate Thesis ESS 498 Undergraduate Thesis (5) NWThe thesis must be submitted at least one month before graduation.
Earth Science^Geochemical Systems Geochemical Systems ESS 501 Geochemical Systems (3) NelsonGeochemical systems through time, from solar system origin to present. Explores fundamental geochemical concepts using current research issues and discussion. Concepts include radiogenic and stable isotope systematic, thermodynamics, high and low temperature chemistry of rocks and water, geochemical cycles through Earth's history.
Earth Science^The Solid Earth The Solid Earth ESS 502 The Solid Earth (3)Concepts of internal earth processes: Earth as heat engine and chemical processor, style of mantle convection, origin and evolution of the Earth's magnetic field, Cascadia subduction and hazards. Introduces seismology, fluid dynamics, heat flow, gravity, and geomagnetism. Focuses on the analysis, critique, and communication of ideas from scientific literature.
Earth Science^Introduction to Solar Terrestrial Physics Introduction to Solar Terrestrial Physics ESS 503 Introduction to Solar Terrestrial Physics (3)Introduces several areas of space physics, the physical principles that apply therein, and the methods by which significant observations are made. Covers electromagnetic and plasma processes from the center of the sun to the surface of the Earth.
Earth Science^The Earth Surface The Earth Surface ESS 504 The Earth Surface (3)Investigates the coupled tectonic and geomorphic processes that shape the surface of the Earth, creates the surface environment that sustains humanity and other life systems, and produces natural hazards. Introduces modern tolls, techniques, and theories applicable to analysis of this coupled dynamic system.
Earth Science^The Cryosphere The Cryosphere ESS 505 The Cryosphere (4) Waddington, WarrenCovers snow deposition and metamorphism, avalanches, heat and mass balance at snow and ice surfaces, glacier flow, ice sheets, sea ice, permafrost, methods of paleoclimate reconstruction, and Ice Age theories.
Earth Science^Great Geological Issues Great Geological Issues ESS 508 Great Geological Issues (3)History and development of geological and paleontological theories and controversies; philosophy and methodology that have driven scientific inquiry in the earth sciences. Requires a term paper analyzing primary material.
Earth Science^Field Methods in Applied Geology I Field Methods in Applied Geology I ESS 509 Field Methods in Applied Geology I (3) CriderIntroduction to problems and techniques of applied geology. Studies the interactions among land use, infrastructure, and the dynamic landscape of the Pacific Northwest. Includes nine-day intensive, mid-September field course held near Mount Rainier.
Earth Science^Field Methods in Applied Geology II Field Methods in Applied Geology II ESS 510 Field Methods in Applied Geology II (3) TroostApplication of applied geology core curriculum to field problems. Includes nine-day intensive, mid-June field course held on the Olympic Peninsula and coastal Puget Sound.
Earth Science^Geophysical Continuum Mechanics Geophysical Continuum Mechanics ESS 511 Geophysical Continuum Mechanics (5)Analysis of stress and strain. Measurement and interpretation of strain in geological materials. Elasticity applied to determine stress in the Earth's lithosphere. Creep of solids and flow of geological materials. Includes advanced, research-oriented problems.
Earth Science^Seismology Seismology ESS 512 Seismology (3)Examines stress and strain, the wave equation, travel times, amplitude and phase, reflection seismology, surface waves, and source theory, including moment tensors, radiation patterns, far-field wave shapes, source spectra, stress drop, and magnitude.
Earth Science^Geophysics: The Earth Geophysics: The Earth ESS 513 Geophysics: The Earth (3)Study of gravity, magnetism, heat flow, seismology. Earth's outer structure studied through unifying concepts of plate tectonic theory. Quantitative approaches to problems, using techniques of classical physics. Includes advanced, research-oriented problems.
Earth Science^Geophysics: Fluids Geophysics: Fluids ESS 514 Geophysics: Fluids (3)Geophysical fluid dynamics. Fluids in geophysics with emphasis on the oceans. Development of the equations of motion with examples drawn from oceanography and solid earth geophysics. Includes advanced, research-oriented problems.
Earth Science^Geophysics: Space Geophysics: Space ESS 515 Geophysics: Space (3)Various phenomena occurring in outer regions of Earth's atmosphere, ionosphere, magnetosphere, and Van Allen radiation belts. Laboratory applications include plasma thrusters and fusion. Concepts include charged particles in magnetic fields, drift motion, plasma, magnetohydrodynamic waves. Includes advanced, research-oriented problems.
Earth Science^Geophysics: The Atmosphere Geophysics: The Atmosphere ESS 516 Geophysics: The Atmosphere (3)Phenomena of the lower atmosphere: some simple applications of the principles of classical thermodynamics, fluid dynamics, and radiative transfer to the atmospheric hydrological cycle, global energy balance, and atmospheric dynamics and climate. Includes advanced, research-oriented problems.
Earth Science^Early Earth Evolution Early Earth Evolution ESS 517 Early Earth Evolution (3)Geological, biological, and environmental evolution of the Earth over the first 4 billion years of its history, as an analogue for the development of other habitable planets.
Earth Science^Technical Communication in Applied Geosciences Technical Communication in Applied Geosciences ESS 518 Technical Communication in Applied Geosciences (1, max. 3)Reading, writing, and presentation of technical information in the geosciences. Topics vary by quarter Offered: AWSp.
Earth Science^Scientific Writing and Graphics Scientific Writing and Graphics ESS 519 Scientific Writing and Graphics (2) Waddington, WarrenCovers principles of scientific writing; methods of ensuring clarity in writing for scientific journals and research proposals; principles of graph construction; and authorship, peer review, and citations. For graduate students in Earth-science related fields. Offered: jointly with ATM S 519/OCEAN 518; Sp, odd years.
Earth Science^Applications in Geological Geographic Information Systems Applications in Geological Geographic Information Systems ESS 520 Applications in Geological Geographic Information Systems (4) WaltersCovers applied uses of GIS in the applied earth sciences. Includes hands-on instruction in and discussion of analysis of geologic patterns and phenomena: terrain analysis and interpretation; riverbed modeling; floodplain analysis; rainfall patterns and effects; landslide forecasting; isostatic phenomena; and topics of the students' own interest. Also covers basic instruction in geospatial statistics.
Earth Science^Geophysical Data Collection and Analysis Geophysical Data Collection and Analysis ESS 522 Geophysical Data Collection and Analysis (3)Theory and practical application of data collection and analysis applied to geophysical problems. Digital processing of signals; filtering and spectral analysis. Laboratory sessions include problem solving on computer-based processing system.
Earth Science^Geophysical Inverse Theory Geophysical Inverse Theory ESS 523 Geophysical Inverse Theory (3)Introduction to the mathematical techniques for estimating properties of physical systems, such as the earth or atmosphere, from data that is insufficient for a precise specification of the system. Emphasis is on the concept of the resolving power of data sets. The ideas developed are quite general and have a wide range of applicability in the field of data interpretation.
Earth Science^Numerical Heat and Mass Flow Modeling in the Earth Sciences Numerical Heat and Mass Flow Modeling in the Earth Sciences ESS 524 Numerical Heat and Mass Flow Modeling in the Earth Sciences (3) WaddingtonNumerical solution of steady and transient advective-diffusion equations describing heat and mass transport processes in earth sciences, emphasizing finite-volume methods and their relationship to finite-difference and finite-element methods. Topics include discretization methods; coordinate systems; boundary conditions; accuracy; and stability.
Earth Science^Fluvial Geomorphology Fluvial Geomorphology ESS 526 Fluvial Geomorphology (5) CollinsHydraulic and morphological characteristics of streams and valley floors. Landscape evolution by stream erosion and deposition. Field exercises and independent project emphasize quantitative analysis of fluvial processes, channel forms, acquisition of various skills, such as mapping, topographic surveying, and report writing.
Earth Science^Hillslope Geomorphology Hillslope Geomorphology ESS 527 Hillslope Geomorphology (5) DuvallTheoretical and applied study of hillslope processes including erosion and deposition; mass wasting; and slope forms and evolution.
Earth Science^Interpretation of Sedimentary Structures Interpretation of Sedimentary Structures ESS 528 Interpretation of Sedimentary Structures (2-4, max. 4)Physical and environmental analysis of sedimentary structures, including biogenic sedimentary structures. Clastic sediments and rocks. Field trips required.
Earth Science^Principles of Fluid Dynamics, Heat, and Mass Transfer in Earth Sciences Principles of Fluid Dynamics, Heat, and Mass Transfer in Earth Sciences ESS 529 Principles of Fluid Dynamics, Heat, and Mass Transfer in Earth Sciences (3)Introduction to the quantitative treatment of transport phenomena with applications to mantle and magma convection, volcanic eruptions, landslides, porous flow, and reaction. Emphasis on the governing equations of fluid dynamics including porous and multiple flow, chaotic convection, mixing, heat transfer, rheology, analytical, numerical, and scaling solutions.
Earth Science^Physics of Ice Physics of Ice ESS 531 Physics of Ice (3)Structure of the water molecule. Crystallographic structures of ice. Electrical, optical, thermal, and mechanical properties of ice. Growth of ice from vapor and liquid phases. Offered: jointly with ATM S 510.
Earth Science^Snow and Ice on the Earth's Surface Snow and Ice on the Earth's Surface ESS 532 Snow and Ice on the Earth's Surface (3)Snow and ice climatology. Formation of the ice crystals in clouds. Snow metamorphism. Transfer of radiative, sensible, and latent heat at snow and ice surfaces. Remote sensing of snow and ice. Growth and melt of sea ice. Climatic records from ice.
Earth Science^Dynamics of Snow and Ice Masses Dynamics of Snow and Ice Masses ESS 533 Dynamics of Snow and Ice Masses (3)Rheology of snow and ice. Sliding and processes at glacier beds. Thermal regime and motion of seasonal snow, glaciers, and ice sheets. Avalanches and glacier surges. Deformation and drift of sea ice. Response of natural ice masses to change in climate.
Earth Science^Ice and Climate Ice and Climate ESS 535 Ice and Climate (3)Examines the role of ice and snow in climate. Polar climate dynamics. Polar-global interactions. Modeling snow cover, sea ice, and ice-sheet balance, and flow in the climate system.
Earth Science^Advanced Mineralogy Advanced Mineralogy ESS 537 Advanced Mineralogy (3)Crystal symmetry: point groups, space groups. Mathematical description of crystal structures; group theory, irreducible representations; tensor description of physical properties: stress, strain, piezoelectricity, elasticity; structural and magnetic phase transitions, Landau theory, deformation and creep crystals; elasto-viscous properties of Earth's mantle, crystal chemistry, solid state reactions. Offered: jointly with MSE 518; A.
Earth Science^Petrogenesis of Igneous Rocks Petrogenesis of Igneous Rocks ESS 538 Petrogenesis of Igneous Rocks (3)Origin of one or more of the major groups of igneous rocks. Selected petrogenetic problems in light of tectonic setting, petrography, geochemistry, and experimental studies.
Earth Science^Advanced Igneous Petrology Advanced Igneous Petrology ESS 540 Advanced Igneous Petrology (4)Crystal-liquid-vapor equilibria in magmatic systems. Physical properties of silicate melts. Geothermometry and geobarometry in igneous rocks. Models of fractionation, assimilation, and magma mixing. Trace elements, radiogenic isotopes, and stable isotopes as tracers in magmatic processes. Nucleation, crystal growth, and diffusion in melts.
Earth Science^Applied Fluvial Geomorphology Applied Fluvial Geomorphology ESS 541 Applied Fluvial Geomorphology (4)Application of theory in fluvial geomorphology to framing and addressing questions in basic research and problems in applied contexts such as river engineering, land use planning, resource management, and river restoration.
Earth Science^Applied Tsunami Hazard Science Applied Tsunami Hazard Science ESS 544 Applied Tsunami Hazard Science (4) GonzalezBroad introductory overview of tsunami science and physical, social, and economic impacts of tsunami hazards. Designed for scientific, engineering, earth-science professionals, and graduate students interested in tsunami hazard assessment, mitigation, or warning.
Earth Science^Continental-Margin Sedimentation Continental-Margin Sedimentation ESS 546 Continental-Margin Sedimentation (3)Detailed evaluation of recent studies into processes forming strata on continental margins, including the diverse time scales ranging from sediment transport to sequence stratigraphy. Highlights the linkages with physical oceanographic processes, the fates of geochemical components, and the relationship to biological communities. Offered: jointly with OCEAN 546.
Earth Science^Engineering Geology: Methods and Application Engineering Geology: Methods and Application ESS 547 Engineering Geology: Methods and Application (4)Applies the application of geologic principles to geotechnical and environmental problems; includes investigation and characterization of soil and rock properties. Includes two weekend field trips.
Earth Science^Electromagnetic and Potential Field Methods Electromagnetic and Potential Field Methods ESS 550 Electromagnetic and Potential Field Methods (3)Development of equations of electromagnetic fields in conducting media. Solution of forward and inverse problems with natural and controlled sources: magnetotelloric and related methods. Includes the special case of static fields: DC resistivity, gravity, and magnetic interpretation.
Earth Science^Mineral Physics Mineral Physics ESS 551 Mineral Physics (3)Applications of condensed matter physics to various geophysical problems. Topics vary, but usually include the thermal properties of relevant geophysical materials, the equation of state for the Earth's mantle and core, defects in solids and their roles in tectonophysics.
Earth Science^Electron Beam Microanalysis Electron Beam Microanalysis ESS 553 Electron Beam Microanalysis (4)Materials analysis using electron beams, including electron-target interactions, wave and energy dispersive x-ray analysis, scanning electron microscopy, and applications of these and related techniques to geological problems.
Earth Science^Paleoclimate Proxies Paleoclimate Proxies ESS 554 Paleoclimate Proxies (3) Alexander, SachsProvides a critical evaluation of the most commonly applied paleoclimate proxies from the ocean, land, and ice sheets. Offered: jointly with ATM S 554/OCEAN 554.
Earth Science^Physics and Chemistry of the Earth's Interior Physics and Chemistry of the Earth's Interior ESS 555 Physics and Chemistry of the Earth's Interior (3)Emphasizes current issues in global tectonics and mantle dynamics. Examples include global seismic tomography and its bearing on geodynamics, the fate of subducted lithosphere and geochemical constraints on mantle convection.
Earth Science^Vertebrate Paleontology Vertebrate Paleontology ESS 557 Vertebrate Paleontology (5)Examines the biology of vertebrate animals, emphasizing their diversity, adaptations, and evolutionary history. Introduces aspects of behavior, physiology, morphology, and ecology that emerge from the comparative study of vertebrates. Laboratory includes local field trips and introduction to regional vertebrate fauna. Offered: jointly with BIOL 557.
Earth Science^Introduction to Graduate Research in Paleobiology Introduction to Graduate Research in Paleobiology ESS 558 Introduction to Graduate Research in Paleobiology (1)Introduction to paleobiology techniques and resources. Offered: jointly with BIOL 555; A.
Earth Science^Climate Modeling Climate Modeling ESS 559 Climate Modeling (3) Bitz, ThompsonPrinciples of Earth system modeling. Emphasis on atmosphere, ocean sea ice, and land-surface components. Climate forcing. Appropriate use of models. Topics of current interest including carbon cycle, atmosphere chemistry, and biogeochemistry.
Earth Science^Cosmogenic Nuclides in Geomorphology Cosmogenic Nuclides in Geomorphology ESS 560 Cosmogenic Nuclides in Geomorphology (3)Use of cosmic-ray-produced nuclides to date rock surfaces and analyze geomorphic processes. Nuclide production by cosmic radiation above and below ground; tracer methods; exposure dating; coupling of cosmogenic nuclide data to geomorphic models.
Earth Science^Observational Seismology Observational Seismology ESS 562 Observational Seismology (1, max. 18)Quarterly research themes introduce students to a variety of digital and analog seismograms and techniques for their interpretation. Students present results of short investigations in an informal seminar setting.
Earth Science^Theoretical Seismology I Theoretical Seismology I ESS 563 Theoretical Seismology I (3)Advanced theoretical seismology. Attenuation and physical dispersion. Waves in anisotropic media. Moment-tensor source representation. Lamb's problem. Waves in stratified media: propagator methods, asymptotic ray theory, WKBJ seismograms. Inverse methods and analysis of seismological data.
Earth Science^Theoretical Seismology II Theoretical Seismology II ESS 564 Theoretical Seismology II (3)Advanced theoretical seismology. Attenuation and physical dispersion. Waves in anisotropic media. Moment-tensor source representation. Lamb's problem. Waves in stratified media: propagator methods, asymptotic ray theory, WKBJ seismograms. Inverse methods and analysis of seismological data.
Earth Science^Oceanic Lithosphere Oceanic Lithosphere ESS 568 Oceanic Lithosphere (3)Basic principles of elasticity, fluid flow, and heat transport with specific applications to the formation and evolution of the oceanic lithosphere. Includes deformation of the earth, flow in porous media, heat transport, and marine seismological and potential field techniques.
Earth Science^Cloud Microphysics and Dynamics Cloud Microphysics and Dynamics ESS 573 Cloud Microphysics and Dynamics (3)Basic concepts of cloud microphysics, water continuity in clouds, cloud dynamics, and cloud models.
Earth Science^Advanced Rockets and Instrumentation Advanced Rockets and Instrumentation ESS 575 Advanced Rockets and Instrumentation (2-4, max. 12)Students launch science payloads to high altitude using high power amateur rockets, providing design, fabrication, test, integration, and management experience; covers science motivation, engineering aspects, and delivery systems. Project may vary each year. Offered: AW.
Earth Science^Space and Laboratory Plasma Physics Space and Laboratory Plasma Physics ESS 576 Space and Laboratory Plasma Physics (3)Discussion of waves, equilibrium and stability, diffusion and resistivity, basic plasma kinetic theory, and wave-particle interactions.
Earth Science^Advanced Space Plasma Physics Advanced Space Plasma Physics ESS 577 Advanced Space Plasma Physics (3)Formation by the interaction of solar wind with geomagnetic field. Trapped particles. Electromagnetic waves in anisotropic plasma. Dynamic disturbances and plasma instabilities.
Earth Science^Kinetic Theory and Simulation of Space Plasmas Kinetic Theory and Simulation of Space Plasmas ESS 578 Kinetic Theory and Simulation of Space Plasmas (3)Wave-particle interactions in space plasmas. Generation of different wave modes, electrostatic and electromagnetic, Langmuir waves to Alfven waves. Beam, Weibel, and masers instabilities, heavy ion interactions. Particle simulations, electrostatic and electromagnetic, for non-linear wave evolution and particle heating.
Earth Science^Computational Methods and Modeling in Geophysics I Computational Methods and Modeling in Geophysics I ESS 579 Computational Methods and Modeling in Geophysics I (3)Solution of complex dispersion equations including multiple root finding. Data analysis, fitting, smoothing, fast integration. Ray tracing and particle tracking in 2-D and 3-D. Computer simulation of fluid interactions, unmagnetized and magnetized, compressible and incompressible, and flow around objects.
Earth Science^Advanced Methods in Isotope Geochemistry Advanced Methods in Isotope Geochemistry ESS 580 Advanced Methods in Isotope Geochemistry (3, max. 18) Huntington, SteigStudies new developments in isotope geochemistry. Topics vary by quarter and may include clumped isotopes, triple-oxygen isotopes, rate isotopes, mass-independent fractionation, and their incorporation into Earth system models. Introduces theory, measurement, and applications to processes in Earth, ocean, atmospheric, planetary, and climate science.
Earth Science^Planetary Atmospheres Planetary Atmospheres ESS 581 Planetary Atmospheres (3)Problems of origin, evolution, and structure of planetary atmospheres, emphasizing elements common to all; roles of radiation, chemistry, and dynamical processes; new results on the atmospheres of Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and other solar system objects in the context of comparative planetology. Offered: jointly with ASTR 555/ATM S 555.
Earth Science^Origin of the Solar System Origin of the Solar System ESS 583 Origin of the Solar System (3)Nebular and nonnebular theories of the solar system origin; collapse from the interstellar medium, grain growth in the solar nebula, formation of planetesimals and planets, early evolution of the planets and other possible planetary systems; physical and chemical evidence upon which the ideas concerning the origin of the solar system are based. Offered: jointly with ASTR 557.
Earth Science^Climate Impacts on the Pacific Northwest Climate Impacts on the Pacific Northwest ESS 585 Climate Impacts on the Pacific Northwest (4) Mantua, SnoverKnowledge of past/future patterns of climate to improve Pacific Northwest resource management. Topics include the predictability of natural/human-caused climate changes; past societal reactions to climate impacts on water, fish, forest, and coastal resources; how climate and public policies interact to affect ecosystems and society. Offered: jointly with ATM S 585/ENVIR 585/SMEA 585; Sp.
Earth Science^Current Research in Climate Change Current Research in Climate Change ESS 586 Current Research in Climate Change (2, max. 20)Weekly lectures focusing on a particular aspect of climate (topic to change each year) from invited speakers (both UW and outside), plus one or two keynote speakers, followed by class discussion. Offered: jointly with ATM S 586/OCEAN 586.
Earth Science^Fundamentals of Climate Change Fundamentals of Climate Change ESS 587 Fundamentals of Climate Change (3)Examines Earth's climate system; distribution of temperature, precipitation, wind ice, salinity, and ocean currents; fundamental processes determining Earth's climate; energy and constituent transport mechanisms; climate sensitivity; natural climate variability on interannual to decadal time scales; global climate models; predicting future climate. Offered: jointly with ATM S 587/OCEAN 587.
Earth Science^The Global Carbon Cycle and Climate The Global Carbon Cycle and Climate ESS 588 The Global Carbon Cycle and Climate (3) EmersonOceanic and terrestrial biogeochemical processes controlling atmospheric CO2 and other greenhouse gases. Records of past changes in the earth's carbon cycle from geological, oceanographic, and terrestrial archives. Anthropogenic perturbations to cycles. Develop simple box models, discuss results of complex models. Offered: jointly with ATM S 588/OCEAN 588; W.
Earth Science^Paleoclimatology: Data, Modeling, and Theory Paleoclimatology: Data, Modeling, and Theory ESS 589 Paleoclimatology: Data, Modeling, and Theory (3)Evidence for past changes in land and sea surface temperature, in precipitation and atmospheric dynamics, and in ocean circulation: both long and interannual timescales. Paleoclimate modeling and theory. Time series analysis and climate noise. Rapid climate change. Statistical reconstruction of interannual variability. Offered: jointly with ATM S 589/OCEAN 589.
Earth Science^Special Topics Special Topics ESS 590 Special Topics (2-10, max. 20)
Earth Science^Professional Practice in Applied Geosciences Professional Practice in Applied Geosciences ESS 592 Professional Practice in Applied Geosciences (1, max. 3)Covers major issues and current topics in the practice of Geosciences: professional licensing, ethics, business trends, environmental regulation, emerging technologies. Includes internships and career guidance, as well as weekly guest speakers. Offered: AWSp.
Earth Science^Climate Science Seminar Climate Science Seminar ESS 593 Climate Science Seminar (1) MoteFocuses on how to communicate climate science to many different audiences through careful construction of figures and through written and oral communication. Offered: jointly with ATM S 593/OCEAN 593; W.
Earth Science^Introduction to Earth and Space Sciences Research Introduction to Earth and Space Sciences Research ESS 594 Introduction to Earth and Space Sciences Research (1-2, max. 4)Introduces research of faculty and advanced graduate students to first-year graduate students and provides experience for the formulation, oral presentation, and defense of research proposals and results.
Earth Science^Earth and Space Sciences Research Methods Earth and Space Sciences Research Methods ESS 595 Earth and Space Sciences Research Methods (2, max. 30)Current research methodology and results based on recent literature and on faculty and student research. Designed to develop student perspective on observational and theoretical methods and on relation of specific research to broader developments in geophysics and interdisciplinary aspects of geophysics through faculty-guided presentations and discussion by students.
Earth Science^Climate Science Capstone Project Climate Science Capstone Project ESS 596 Climate Science Capstone Project (1-5, max. 5) MoteClimate capstone directed by a mentor, may be a group effort, and may encompass curriculum development, internships, workshop organization, etc., capturing interdisciplinary aspects of climate science and effective communication of climate science. Offered: jointly with ATM S 596/OCEAN 596; AWSpS.
Earth Science^Seminar Seminar ESS 599 Seminar (1, max. 24)Review of current literature in geophysics and graduate student research with faculty participation.
Earth Science^Internship Internship ESS 601 Internship (*) Crider, TroostGraduate internship and final exam.
Entrepreneurship^Introduction to Entrepreneurship Introduction to Entrepreneurship ENTRE 370 Introduction to Entrepreneurship (4)Introduction to entrepreneurial practices with an emphasis on learning how to find business ideas, how to evaluate their potential, and how to recognize the barriers to success. Exposure to the stresses of a start-up business, the uncertainties that exist, and the behavior of entrepreneurs.
Entrepreneurship^Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making ENTRE 401 Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making (4)The manager as leader and decision maker. Various leadership theories, styles, and behaviors. Decision-making models and techniques. Offered: jointly with MGMT 401.
Entrepreneurship^Innovation Strategy Innovation Strategy ENTRE 422 Innovation Strategy (4)Focuses on starting a hardware or software company. Includes guest entrepreneurs, lawyers, and financiers discussing market identification and analysis; planning the business; financing; and typical operating and administrative problems.
Entrepreneurship^Software Entrepreneurship Software Entrepreneurship ENTRE 432 Software Entrepreneurship (4)Explores the opportunities and challenges of launching a software company. Issues include an overview of the industry, trends and emerging opportunities, funding, technology transfer, industry challenges, and cutting-edge software practices.
Entrepreneurship^Business Plan Practicum Business Plan Practicum ENTRE 440 Business Plan Practicum (2)Enables students interested in new venture creation to explore their entrepreneurial aptitude, formulate their ideas, validate the opportunity, develop a business plan, and demonstrate the depth of their knowledge by preparing an executive summary and competing in the UW Business Plan Competition. Offered: W.
Entrepreneurship^Environmental Innovation Practicum Environmental Innovation Practicum ENTRE 443 Environmental Innovation Practicum (2)Focuses on developing innovative solutions to real-world environmental problems and creating new business opportunities. Speakers include experts from the clean-tech community, environmental start-ups, the public sector, as well as corporate environmental strategists. Themes include water, energy, green building, and transportation. Includes the opportunity to participate in the UW Environmental Innovation Challenge.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Marketing Entrepreneurial Marketing ENTRE 455 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4)Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap marketing in their start-up firms. Students learn to identify target market segments, position their products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage the issues of rapid growth.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Finance Entrepreneurial Finance ENTRE 457 Entrepreneurial Finance (4)Explores financial issues that face entrepreneurs, including the stages of financing, business cash flow models, and strategic positioning of the early-stage company. Examines the role of business angels, venture capital funds, institutional investors, strategic alliances, licensing agreements, and exit strategies.
Entrepreneurship^Venture Investing Venture Investing ENTRE 459 Venture Investing (4)Analyzes and makes recommendations on investment opportunities through learning the fundamentals of venture investing and performing due diligence on real companies. Explores the venture investing process from the entrepreneur's and the investor's point of view. Students present their recommendations to the Investment Committee of the W Fund. Offered: jointly with FIN 459.
Entrepreneurship^Creating a Company I Creating a Company I ENTRE 472 Creating a Company I (4-)Two-course sequence with ENTRE 473. Working in teams, students develop a business plan for a new venture, present their plans to a panel of investors, obtain funding, run the business, and exit the firm at the end of the second quarter.
Entrepreneurship^Creating a Company II Creating a Company II ENTRE 473 Creating a Company II (-4)Two-course sequence with ENTRE 472. Working in teams, students develop a business plan for a new venture, present their plans to a panel of investors, obtain funding, run the business, and exit the firm at the end of the second quarter.
Entrepreneurship^Special Topics in Entrepreneurship Special Topics in Entrepreneurship ENTRE 490 Special Topics in Entrepreneurship (1-6, max. 6)
Entrepreneurship^Foundations of Entrepreneurship Foundations of Entrepreneurship ENTRE 509 Foundations of Entrepreneurship (2)Evaluation of new market opportunities and starting a new venture; focuses on identifying and evaluating new venture opportunities, developing and testing market strategies, evaluating test market performance, and evaluating business plans. Emphasizes the interplay between marketing, manufacturing, finance, accounting. and team management.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Strategy Entrepreneurial Strategy ENTRE 510 Entrepreneurial Strategy (4)Uses the tools of competitive strategy to analyze the success and failure of entrepreneurial ventures, identifying general strategic principles that might increase the probability that an entrepreneurial venture will succeed. Draws heavily on the principles of microeconomics and strategy.
Entrepreneurship^Corporate Entrepreneurship Corporate Entrepreneurship ENTRE 521 Corporate Entrepreneurship (4)Focuses on entrepreneurial activities in large, established corporation. Introduces the theory and best practices on the process of converting new ideas to commercial products and new businesses.
Entrepreneurship^Innovation Strategy Innovation Strategy ENTRE 522 Innovation Strategy (4)Explores how firms tap into external sources of innovation, focusing on user communities, universities, and entrepreneurial ventures. Demonstrates how open, collaborative, community-based models of innovation create successful business options. Offered: jointly with MGMT 522.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Decision Making Entrepreneurial Decision Making ENTRE 530 Entrepreneurial Decision Making (4) SongProvides an overview of the major decisions entrepreneurs face when creating a business. Covers the startup lifecycle from idea generation and opportunity recognition to entry strategy, growth, and exit.
Entrepreneurship^Developing Business Models for Emerging Technologies Developing Business Models for Emerging Technologies ENTRE 531 Developing Business Models for Emerging Technologies (4)Focuses on the commercialization of emerging technologies. Topics include conducting feasibility assessments of intellectual property landscape, evaluating business opportunities, analyzing competition, developing business models and strategies, constructing a professional quality business plan, and presenting business plan, transforming a new technology into a market-ready technology-based business. Offered: W.
Entrepreneurship^Software Entrepreneurship Software Entrepreneurship ENTRE 532 Software Entrepreneurship (4)A case- and project-based course, focusing on starting a software or hardware company. Guest entrepreneurs, lawyers, and financiers discuss market identification and analysis, planning the business, financing, and typical operating and administrative problems.
Entrepreneurship^Business Plan Practicum Business Plan Practicum ENTRE 540 Business Plan Practicum (2, max. 4)Gives student entrepreneurs the opportunity to network with the founders/CEOs of companies, explore their entrepreneurial aptitude, and work through the details of their own start-ups. Provides structure, tools, and resources to start of company, and compete in the UW Business Plan Competition.
Entrepreneurship^Technology Commercialization Practicum Technology Commercialization Practicum ENTRE 541 Technology Commercialization Practicum (4)Provides the experience of researching and creating a commercialization plan for a promising technology. Designed to apply the skills and perspectives of students in cross-disciplinary teams so they learn how to work effectively with peers in assessing complex and potentially ambiguous situations. Offered: S.
Entrepreneurship^Venture Capital Investment Practicum Venture Capital Investment Practicum ENTRE 542 Venture Capital Investment Practicum (2)Provides overview and teaches the mechanics of the venture capital industry and culminates in intramural venture capital competition. Students assume the role of investors in a venture capital firm and real entrepreneurs pitch to them for investment dollars. Teams defend their allocation decisions before a judging panel of venture capitalists. Offered: A.
Entrepreneurship^Environmental Innovation Practicum Environmental Innovation Practicum ENTRE 543 Environmental Innovation Practicum (2)Focuses on developing innovation solutions to real-world environmental problems and creating new business opportunities. Speakers include experts from the clean-tech community, environmental start-ups, the public sector, as well as corporate environmental strategists. Themes include water, energy, green building, and transportation. Students have the opportunity to participate in the UW Environmental Innovation Challenge. Offered: A.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Marketing Entrepreneurial Marketing ENTRE 555 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4)Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap or guerilla early-stage companies. Covers how to target market segments, position products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage issues of rapid growth.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Finance Entrepreneurial Finance ENTRE 557 Entrepreneurial Finance (4)Analyzes the unique financial issues facing entrepreneurial firms. Topics include assessing financial performance, financial forecasting and planning, financial management of rapidly growing businesses, start-up ventures, valuation, sources of financing, venture capital, initial public offerings, and the decision to harvest.
Entrepreneurship^Special Topics in Entrepreneurship Special Topics in Entrepreneurship ENTRE 579 Special Topics in Entrepreneurship (2-4, max. 12)Topics vary. Offered only when faculty members are available and there is sufficient student interest.
Entrepreneurship^Theoretical Foundations of Entrepreneurship Theoretical Foundations of Entrepreneurship ENTRE 581 Theoretical Foundations of Entrepreneurship (4)Focuses on theoretical overview, entrepreneurs, environment and organizational founding, entrepreneurship's links with other disciplines, venture capital and venture capitalists, new venture strategy and performance, growth processes and challenges, and entrepreneurial networks and alliances. Offered: A.
Entrepreneurship^Technology, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship Technology, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship ENTRE 582 Technology, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship (4)Explores issues of how a knowledge-based economy competes and performs using technological innovations and entrepreneurship. Explores research on capabilities of broader entities; processes of learning at the firm, industry, technology, economy-level; development of know-how as evolutionary process; and explorations by firms, sectors and economies exploring new technologies and techniques. Offered: W.
Entrepreneurship^New Venture Research Practicum New Venture Research Practicum ENTRE 590 New Venture Research Practicum (4)Exposes students to new venture creation phenomena. Teaches how to think about and understand empirical research methods such as case studies, participant-observation, and other field methods while contributing to on-going cumulative data collection process.
German^Intensive First-Year German Intensive First-Year German GERMAN 100 Intensive First-Year German (15)Accelerated first-year German. Speaking and listening. Secondary objectives are reading and writing. Offered: S.
German^First-Year German First-Year German GERMAN 101 First-Year German (5)The methods and objectives are primarily communicative, with emphasis on speaking and listening. Secondary objectives are reading and writing. (Cannot be taken for credit if German is language of admission). First in a sequence of three.
German^First-Year German First-Year German GERMAN 102 First-Year German (5)The methods and objectives are primarily communicative, with emphasis on speaking and listening. Secondary objectives are reading and writing. Second in a sequence of three.
German^First-Year German First-Year German GERMAN 103 First-Year German (5)The methods and objectives are primarily communicative, with emphasis on speaking and listening. Secondary objectives are reading and writing. Third in a sequence of three.
German^Individualized First-Year German Individualized First-Year German GERMAN 104 Individualized First-Year German (1-15, max. 15)Individualized approach to elementary German instruction. Students progress at their own pace. Number of credits vary. Depending upon amount of material mastered, any number of credits up to 15 may be earned per quarter. (Note: If German is the student's language of admission, only 10 credits count towards graduation.)
German^Basic German Review Basic German Review GERMAN 111 Basic German Review (5)Includes the curriculum of GERMAN 102, preceded by a review of GERMAN 101. Designed for students with a background in German. Cannot be taken for credit if student has already taken GERMAN 102, GERMAN 103, or more advanced courses. Offered: A.
German^First-Year Reading German First-Year Reading German GERMAN 121 First-Year Reading German (5)Special beginning course devoted exclusively to the reading objective. Offered: S.
German^First-Year Reading German First-Year Reading German GERMAN 122 First-Year Reading German (5)Special beginning course devoted exclusively to the reading objective; GERMAN 122 continuation of GERMAN 121. Offered: S.
German^Conversational German Through Films Conversational German Through Films GERMAN 150 Conversational German Through Films (2, max. 6)Conversational practice in small groups based on films. Because series progresses through the year, beginners may enroll only Autumn Quarter. May be taken concurrently with other Germanics courses. Cannot be taken for credit if GERMAN 250 previously taken. Offered: AWSp.
German^Popular Film and the Holocaust Popular Film and the Holocaust GERMAN 195 Popular Film and the Holocaust (5) VLPAIntroduces films about the Holocaust with particular emphasis on popular films. Develops the requisite tools for analyzing films, a historical perspective of the Holocaust, and the problems involved in trying to represent a historical event whose tragic dimensions exceed the limits of the imagination. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 175.
German^Supervised Study Supervised Study GERMAN 199 Supervised Study (1-10, max. 10)Study in German language and culture.
German^Intensive Second-Year German Intensive Second-Year German GERMAN 200 Intensive Second-Year German (15) VLPAAccelerated second-year German. Systematic review of German grammar. Intensive practice in conversation, reading and writing.
German^Second-Year German Second-Year German GERMAN 201 Second-Year German (5) VLPASystematic review of German grammar. Intensive practice in conversation, reading, and writing. First in a sequence of three. Offered: AWSpS.
German^Second-Year German Second-Year German GERMAN 202 Second-Year German (5) VLPASystematic review of German grammar. Intensive practice in conversation, reading, and writing. Second in a sequence of three. Offered: AWSp.
German^Second-Year German Second-Year German GERMAN 203 Second-Year German (5) VLPASystematic review of German grammar. Intensive practice in conversation, reading, and writing. Third in a sequence of three. Offered: AWSp.
German^Classics of German Literature and Thought Classics of German Literature and Thought GERMAN 210 Classics of German Literature and Thought (5) VLPAIntroduction to major figures of German culture from the Reformation to the present, their contribution to the intellectual life of the Western world. Luther, Kant, Goethe, Schopenhauer, Marx, Freud, Nietzsche, Kafka, Brecht, and Mann. In English.
German^Origins of the Germanic Languages Origins of the Germanic Languages GERMAN 220 Origins of the Germanic Languages (5) VLPAIntroduction to basic grammatical concepts, terminology, and linguistics with emphasis on German-English relationship. Overview of phonology, morphology, syntax, and history of Germanic languages and people, both ancient and modern. Languages covered include Old, Middle, and New High German; English, Frisian, Dutch, Old Saxon, and Gothic. Taught in English. Offered: jointly with LING 220.
German^The German Express: Second Year The German Express: Second Year GERMAN 221 The German Express: Second Year (10) VLPACombines in one quarter the contents of GERMAN 201 and GERMAN 202, with special emphasis on reading and speaking skills. Limited to students who have demonstrated exceptional skills in first-year German. Offered: A.
German^Fairy Tale and Fantasy Fairy Tale and Fantasy GERMAN 243 Fairy Tale and Fantasy (5) VLPAStudies of the Grimm brothers' fairy tales, their reception in different cultural frameworks, and their influence on fantasy literature from the nineteenth century to the present, including discussions of their sociological, psychological, and psychoanalytical implications and gender issues. In English.
German^Advanced Conversational German Through Films Advanced Conversational German Through Films GERMAN 250 Advanced Conversational German Through Films (2, max. 6) VLPAConversational practice in small groups based on films. May be taken concurrently with other Germanics courses. Offered: WSp.
German^Crime Scenes: Investigating the Cinema and Its Cultures Crime Scenes: Investigating the Cinema and Its Cultures GERMAN 275 Crime Scenes: Investigating the Cinema and Its Cultures (5) VLPATeaches how to analyze film by closely studying crime scenes from historical and contemporary German and Scandinavian cinema. Directors studied include Fritz Lang, Carl Th. Dreyer, Billy Wilder, and Lars von Trier. Offered: jointly with SCAND 275.
German^Introduction to Contemporary German Culture Introduction to Contemporary German Culture GERMAN 293 Introduction to Contemporary German Culture (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduction to culture of today's German-speaking world through readings from various media and discussion of diverse manifestations of both high and popular culture, its underlying beliefs and values, and its institutions and historical background. Readings and discussions in English.
German^The Contributions of German Jews to German Culture The Contributions of German Jews to German Culture GERMAN 295 The Contributions of German Jews to German Culture (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVContribution, assimilation, and alienation of German-speaking Jews - such as Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, and Franz Kafka - emphasizing the multi-cultural nature of that which is understood as "German culture." Offered: jointly with JSIS C 295.
German^Topics in Literature and Culture Topics in Literature and Culture GERMAN 298 Topics in Literature and Culture (5, max. 10) VLPAIntroduces literary works and cultural artifacts from a variety of different traditions, cultures, and periods. Helps students to acquire basic tools for analyzing literature and culture.
German^Supervised Study Supervised Study GERMAN 299 Supervised Study (1-5, max. 10)
German^Studies in Germanics Studies in Germanics GERMAN 300 Studies in Germanics (5, max. 15) VLPATopics or figures of German literature or language.
German^Conversation and Writing Skills Conversation and Writing Skills GERMAN 301 Conversation and Writing Skills (3-5) VLPALanguage skill development (speaking, writing) using materials selected to broaden understanding of German-speaking countries. Offered: AW.
German^Conversation and Writing Skills Conversation and Writing Skills GERMAN 302 Conversation and Writing Skills (3-5) VLPALanguage skill development (speaking, writing) using materials selected to broaden understanding of German-speaking countries. Offered: WSp.
German^Conversation and Writing Skills Conversation and Writing Skills GERMAN 303 Conversation and Writing Skills (3-5) VLPALanguage skill development (speaking, writing) using materials selected to broaden understanding of German-speaking countries. Offered: Sp.
German^Contemporary German Play Contemporary German Play GERMAN 304 Contemporary German Play (5, max. 15) VLPAReading, analysis, and performance of one play by a contemporary German author. Taught in German. Performance scheduled for last week of quarter.
German^THIRD-YEAR COMPOSITION THIRD-YEAR COMPOSITION GERMAN 307 THIRD-YEAR COMPOSITION (3-5) VLPA
German^Introduction to German Literary Studies Introduction to German Literary Studies GERMAN 311 Introduction to German Literary Studies (5) VLPAIntroduction to major critical concepts and basic methodological issues of literary studies. Diverse reading strategies plus special emphasis on analytical writing about literature. Readings from eighteenth- to twentieth-century literature.
German^Historical Approaches to German Literature Historical Approaches to German Literature GERMAN 312 Historical Approaches to German Literature (5) VLPAGerman literature from the Middle Ages to the present: Medieval Courtly period, Baroque, Enlightenment, Sturm und Drang, Classicism, Romanticism, Realism, Neoromanticism, Expressionism.
German^Major Figures of German Literature Major Figures of German Literature GERMAN 313 Major Figures of German Literature (5) VLPAFocus on major figure such as Goethe, Schiller, Kleist, Fontane, Thomas Mann, Kafka. Emphasis on his/her cultural and sociopolitical contexts. Literary and nonliterary texts, including film, art, political, historical, and philosophical texts.
German^Introduction to German Cultural Studies Introduction to German Cultural Studies GERMAN 322 Introduction to German Cultural Studies (5) VLPAQuestions addressed include: What is "German culture," how has it been defined and contested, and how and why do we study it? Interdisciplinary methods and readings.
German^Institutions and Their Ideas Institutions and Their Ideas GERMAN 323 Institutions and Their Ideas (5) VLPA/I&SAnalysis of central institutions of contemporary Germany in their historical development.
German^Conversational German Conversational German GERMAN 330 Conversational German (3-5) VLPAFor participants in special summer programs only.
German^Friedrich Nietzsche in English Friedrich Nietzsche in English GERMAN 340 Friedrich Nietzsche in English (5) VLPA/I&SAnalysis of Friedrich Nietzsche's chief works and the discussion of his position within modern German literature and thought.
German^Franz Kafka in English Franz Kafka in English GERMAN 341 Franz Kafka in English (5) VLPAShort stories and novels of Franz Kafka; emphasis on philosophical relevance and esthetic significance.
German^Thomas Mann in English Thomas Mann in English GERMAN 342 Thomas Mann in English (5) VLPA
German^Bertolt Brecht in English Bertolt Brecht in English GERMAN 345 Bertolt Brecht in English (5) VLPA
German^The Contemporary German Novel in English The Contemporary German Novel in English GERMAN 346 The Contemporary German Novel in English (5) VLPAMajor novels of the postwar period (1945 to present) discussed in their historical context.
German^Goethe in English Goethe in English GERMAN 349 Goethe in English (5) VLPASelected major works (especially Faust) of Goethe, whose literary, philosophical, and scientific achievements are examined as integral parts of his quest for meaning, wholeness, and universality, and whose impact on Western thinking is traced up to Thomas Mann and C. G. Jung.
German^The German Drama in English The German Drama in English GERMAN 350 The German Drama in English (5) VLPAGerman drama from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries. German history and culture as reflected in the plays. Discussion of major themes.
German^Vienna 1900 in English Vienna 1900 in English GERMAN 351 Vienna 1900 in English (5) VLPA/I&SInterdisciplinary study of Vienna at the turn of the century. Discussion of literary texts with emphasis on other intellectual and cultural trends of this very rich and complex period.
German^Literature and Society in Weimar and National Socialist Germany in English Literature and Society in Weimar and National Socialist Germany in English GERMAN 352 Literature and Society in Weimar and National Socialist Germany in English (5) VLPA/I&SLiterature, theater, and film, with adjunct consideration of art and architecture, in relation to the German social and cultural situation circa 1918 to circa 1947.
German^Postwar Germany Postwar Germany GERMAN 353 Postwar Germany (5) VLPA/I&SStudy of culture, society, and politics in Germany since 1945. Readings include literary and nonliterary texts devoted to culture and everyday life. In English.
German^German Literature and Film in English German Literature and Film in English GERMAN 355 German Literature and Film in English (5) VLPARelationship between literature and film in the German tradition. Content varies; focus may be on a particular time period, director, or theme. Special attention paid to developing critical and analytical skills.
German^Women in German Literature in English Women in German Literature in English GERMAN 360 Women in German Literature in English (5) VLPA/I&SInvestigates the changing social roles of women in German society on the example of various literary texts from different periods.
German^History of German Cinema History of German Cinema GERMAN 370 History of German Cinema (5) VLPA/I&SHistory of German cinema emphasizing the cultural and political contexts. Films by Lang, Murnau, Riefenstahl, and Fassbinder, among others. Readings and discussions in English.
German^Special Topics: German Cinema Special Topics: German Cinema GERMAN 371 Special Topics: German Cinema (5, max. 10) VLPACovers one or more German film directors, a specific genre, or a chosen theme. Topics vary. Readings and discussions in English.
German^Germanic Studies in English Germanic Studies in English GERMAN 390 Germanic Studies in English (5, max. 15) VLPATopics or figures of German literature or language.
German^Proctoring of First-Year German Film Course Proctoring of First-Year German Film Course GERMAN 395 Proctoring of First-Year German Film Course (2, max. 6) VLPARestricted to upper-division students of German who have demonstrated sufficient proficiency in speaking German to lead discussion groups in GERMAN 150. Leaders may participate one or two hours per week and receive 1 credit for each hour in class with 6 credits allowed in 3 quarters. Offered: AWSp.
German^Proctoring of Second-Year German Film Course Proctoring of Second-Year German Film Course GERMAN 396 Proctoring of Second-Year German Film Course (2, max. 6) VLPARestricted to upper-division students of German who have demonstrated sufficient proficiency in speaking German to lead discussion groups in GERMAN 250. Leaders may participate one or two hours per week and receive 1 credit for each hour in class with 6 credits allowed in three quarters. Offered: WSp.
German^Foreign Studies in German Literature Foreign Studies in German Literature GERMAN 397 Foreign Studies in German Literature (1-6, max. 15) VLPA
German^Foreign Studies in German Language Foreign Studies in German Language GERMAN 398 Foreign Studies in German Language (1-6, max. 15) VLPA
German^Foreign Studies in German Culture Foreign Studies in German Culture GERMAN 399 Foreign Studies in German Culture (1-6, max. 15) VLPA/I&S
German^Advanced Writing and Conversation Advanced Writing and Conversation GERMAN 401 Advanced Writing and Conversation (3-5) VLPATexts and exercises, both grammatical and stylistic, to develop vocabulary, stylistic awareness, and the practical application of grammatical rules in written German. First in a sequence of three. Offered: A.
German^Advanced Writing and Conversation Advanced Writing and Conversation GERMAN 402 Advanced Writing and Conversation (3-5) VLPATexts and exercises, both grammatical and stylistic, to develop vocabulary, stylistic awareness, and the practical application of grammatical rules in written German. Second in a sequence of three.
German^Advanced Writing and Conversation Advanced Writing and Conversation GERMAN 403 Advanced Writing and Conversation (3-5) VLPATexts and exercises, both grammatical and stylistic, to develop vocabulary, stylistic awareness, and the practical application of grammatical rules in written German. Third in a sequence of three.
German^Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture GERMAN 421 Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture (5) VLPARotating special topics in literature and culture of the eighteenth century, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems. Offered: A.
German^Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture GERMAN 422 Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture (5) VLPARotating special topics in literature and culture of the nineteenth century, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems. Offered: W.
German^Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture: Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture: GERMAN 423 Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture: (5) VLPARotating special topics in literature and culture of the twentieth century, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems. Offered: Sp.
German^Advanced Conversational German Advanced Conversational German GERMAN 430 Advanced Conversational German (3-5, max. 10) VLPAFor participants in special summer programs only. Cannot be taken for credit by those who have already taken GERMAN 401, GERMAN 402, or GERMAN 403.
German^Undergraduate Thesis in Germanics Undergraduate Thesis in Germanics GERMAN 444 Undergraduate Thesis in Germanics (5) VLPASupervised research leading to the writing of a research thesis.
German^Internships and Service Learning Internships and Service Learning GERMAN 446 Internships and Service Learning (2-5, max. 10)
German^Linguistic Analysis of German Linguistic Analysis of German GERMAN 451 Linguistic Analysis of German (5) VLPAOffered: A.
German^History of the German Language History of the German Language GERMAN 452 History of the German Language (5) VLPATraces the history of the German language from early Germanic to the present. Offered: jointly with LING 415; W.
German^Special Topics in the Teaching of Foreign Languages Special Topics in the Teaching of Foreign Languages GERMAN 479 Special Topics in the Teaching of Foreign Languages (3, max. 9) VLPAIntensive workshop for in-service and pre-service teachers of all foreign languages on some aspect of foreign-language teaching methodology.
German^Contemporary German Literature Contemporary German Literature GERMAN 490 Contemporary German Literature (5) VLPAInterpretation of selected works by contemporary German authors.
German^Special Topics in German Culture Special Topics in German Culture GERMAN 493 Special Topics in German Culture (5) VLPA/I&S
German^Studies in German Poetry Studies in German Poetry GERMAN 494 Studies in German Poetry (5) VLPAIntroduction to various methods of analysis and interpretation.
German^Proseminar in German Literature Proseminar in German Literature GERMAN 495 Proseminar in German Literature (5, max. 15) VLPASpecial topics, the subject matter and depth of which are not included in other literature courses, arranged through consultation among students and faculty members.
German^History of Germanic Philology History of Germanic Philology GERMAN 496 History of Germanic Philology (5) VLPAIntroduction to the works of outstanding scholars in the field of Germanics.
German^Studies in German Literature Studies in German Literature GERMAN 497 Studies in German Literature (1-6, max. 15)
German^Studies in the German Language Studies in the German Language GERMAN 498 Studies in the German Language (1-6, max. 15)
German^Studies in German Culture Studies in German Culture GERMAN 499 Studies in German Culture (1-6, max. 15)
German^Literary Theory, Methodology, and Bibliography Literary Theory, Methodology, and Bibliography GERMAN 500 Literary Theory, Methodology, and Bibliography (5)Historical survey and analysis of criticism (Methodengeschichte) and modern trends in contemporary theory. Methods of research and bibliography, as well as theoretical aspects of practical interpretation.
German^Proseminar in Methods and Writing Proseminar in Methods and Writing GERMAN 501 Proseminar in Methods and Writing (5)Introduction to research methods, presentation of research, scholarly writing, and general poetological issues. Each year a different special topic is chosen as a focus for students' research in the course.
German^Contemporary German Literature Contemporary German Literature GERMAN 503 Contemporary German Literature (5, max. 15)Seminar analyzing the esthetic movements and thought of contemporary German literature, the social and political problems dealt with in the works of representative authors, and major experimental concepts. Some previous exposure to German literature and civilization after 1945 is expected.
German^Special Studies in Literary Criticism and Theory Special Studies in Literary Criticism and Theory GERMAN 504 Special Studies in Literary Criticism and Theory (5, max. 15)Literary criticism and theory, focusing on special topics proposed by the instructor. Taught in English.
German^Studies in Medieval Literature and Culture Studies in Medieval Literature and Culture GERMAN 510 Studies in Medieval Literature and Culture (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics in literature and culture of the Middle Ages, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Studies in Renaissance and Baroque Literature and Culture Studies in Renaissance and Baroque Literature and Culture GERMAN 511 Studies in Renaissance and Baroque Literature and Culture (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics in literature and culture of the Renaissance and Baroque, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture GERMAN 512 Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature and Culture (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics in literature and culture of the eighteenth century, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture GERMAN 514 Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics in literature and culture of the nineteenth century, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture GERMAN 516 Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics in literature and culture of the twentieth century, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Foreign Language Teaching Methodology Foreign Language Teaching Methodology GERMAN 518 Foreign Language Teaching Methodology (2) BrandlCurrent foreign language teaching methods and approaches. Learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills (reading, writing, speaking, listening) including cultural notions. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 518/SCAND 518/SLAV 518; A.
German^Seminar in Romanticism Seminar in Romanticism GERMAN 525 Seminar in Romanticism (5, max. 15)
German^Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Drama Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Drama GERMAN 526 Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Drama (5, max. 15)
German^Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Prose Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Prose GERMAN 527 Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Prose (5, max. 15)
German^Nineteenth-Century Poetry Nineteenth-Century Poetry GERMAN 528 Nineteenth-Century Poetry (5, max. 15)Representative selections from Holderlin, the late Goethe, and from prevalent trends in nineteenth-century poetry, such as romanticism, "Young Germany," poetic realism, and the experimental poetry of naturalism.
German^Studies in Literature 1870-1920 Studies in Literature 1870-1920 GERMAN 529 Studies in Literature 1870-1920 (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics drawn from the period 1870-1920, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Seminar in Eighteenth-Century Literature Seminar in Eighteenth-Century Literature GERMAN 533 Seminar in Eighteenth-Century Literature (5, max. 15)Study of one or more of the literary movements: Enlightenment, sentimentalism, anacreontics, storm and stress, classicism, early romanticism, and works by principal authors such as Gottsched, Bodmer, Gellert, Lessing, Wieland, Klopstock, Herder, Lenz, Goethe, Schiller, Jean Paul.
German^Storm and Stress Storm and Stress GERMAN 534 Storm and Stress (5, max. 15)Extensive investigation of poetological and esthetic concepts advanced by initiators and exponents of German storm and stress. Analyses of narrative and dramatic works of storm and stress reveal reflections and implementations of the new theoretical concepts.
German^Classicism: Goethe, Schiller Classicism: Goethe, Schiller GERMAN 535 Classicism: Goethe, Schiller (5, max. 15)
German^Studies in Literature 1770-1830 Studies in Literature 1770-1830 GERMAN 537 Studies in Literature 1770-1830 (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics drawn from the period 1770-1830, such as particular movements, authors, genres, themes, or problems.
German^Twentieth-Century Poetry Twentieth-Century Poetry GERMAN 540 Twentieth-Century Poetry (5, max. 15)Development of German poetry from Rilke, Hofmannsthal, and George through Trakl, Benn, the Expressionists and the Dadaists, Brecht, and Enzensberger, to such contemporaries as Eich, Heissenbuttel, the concrete poets, Celan, and Bachmann.
German^Twentieth-Century German Drama Twentieth-Century German Drama GERMAN 541 Twentieth-Century German Drama (5, max. 15)Selection from modern German drama representative of the concern with the human condition, of social criticism, and of experimentation with the new dramatic forms.
German^Twentieth-Century Prose Twentieth-Century Prose GERMAN 542 Twentieth-Century Prose (5, max. 15)Selected modern German novels, short novels, and short stories by representative authors dealing with the social and political problems of Germany as well as with individual problems of existence and identity.
German^Gothic Gothic GERMAN 550 Gothic (5)
German^Seminar in Germanic Philology and Linguistics Seminar in Germanic Philology and Linguistics GERMAN 551 Seminar in Germanic Philology and Linguistics (5, max. 15)Topics vary.
German^Old High German Old High German GERMAN 552 Old High German (5)
German^Old Saxon Old Saxon GERMAN 555 Old Saxon (5)
German^Middle High German Middle High German GERMAN 556 Middle High German (5)
German^Middle High German Literature Middle High German Literature GERMAN 558 Middle High German Literature (5)
German^Modern Dialects Modern Dialects GERMAN 560 Modern Dialects (5)
German^Seminar in Courtly Epic Seminar in Courtly Epic GERMAN 565 Seminar in Courtly Epic (5)Aspects and methods of literary analysis pertaining to the study of medieval courtly epics.
German^Late Middle High German Narrative Late Middle High German Narrative GERMAN 566 Late Middle High German Narrative (3)
German^Minnesang Minnesang GERMAN 567 Minnesang (3)In-depth study of medieval German lyrics in the context of German and European literary and intellectual development. Poems of the period from Kurenberger through Walther are analyzed with stress on grammatical, formal, stylistic, and ideological interpretation.
German^Seminar in Heroic Epic Seminar in Heroic Epic GERMAN 568 Seminar in Heroic Epic (5)Literary and historic problems of the German heroic epic, with special emphasis on the Nibelungenlied and the Dietrichsepik.
German^Teaching of German Literature and Civilization Teaching of German Literature and Civilization GERMAN 575 Teaching of German Literature and Civilization (5)Teaching of German language and literature on the advanced level in secondary schools and colleges.
German^Modern Methods and Materials in Teaching German Modern Methods and Materials in Teaching German GERMAN 576 Modern Methods and Materials in Teaching German (3)Theory and practice of communicative language teaching; current developments in foreign-language teaching; evaluation of teaching materials. Offered: A.
German^Principles of Second Language Learning Principles of Second Language Learning GERMAN 577 Principles of Second Language Learning (2)
German^Seminar in German Literature Seminar in German Literature GERMAN 580 Seminar in German Literature (5, max. 15)Open topics seminar with varying content.
German^Seminar in Poetry Seminar in Poetry GERMAN 581 Seminar in Poetry (5, max. 15)Open topics seminar with varying content.
German^Seminar in Drama Seminar in Drama GERMAN 582 Seminar in Drama (5, max. 15)Open topics seminar with varying content.
German^Seminar in Prose Seminar in Prose GERMAN 583 Seminar in Prose (5, max. 15)Open topics seminar with varying content.
German^Philosophical Issues in German Culture Philosophical Issues in German Culture GERMAN 590 Philosophical Issues in German Culture (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics dealing with the impact of particular thinkers, movements, or philosophical problems in German culture.
German^Studies in German Intellectual History Studies in German Intellectual History GERMAN 591 Studies in German Intellectual History (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics dealing with interactions of history, literature, and culture in the German tradition.
German^Cultural Studies Cultural Studies GERMAN 592 Cultural Studies (5, max. 15)Seminar on rotating special topics dealing with periods, themes, or particular problems in German life and culture.
Theater^Introduction to the Theatre Introduction to the Theatre DRAMA 101 Introduction to the Theatre (5) VLPAThe theatre as an art form with emphasis on the play in production. The role of the various theatre artists: actors, directors, designers, and playwrights. Required attendance at one or more performances. Lecture and discussion groups. For nonmajors. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Theatre Appreciation Theatre Appreciation DRAMA 103 Theatre Appreciation (5) VLPACovers the art of live theatrical performance. Discussion of how theatre is assembled, who the artists are, what they do, how theatre differs from other media, and how the various genres and styles of performance function, to create a deeper understanding of live performance. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Plays and Styles Plays and Styles DRAMA 201 Plays and Styles (5) VLPAIntroduces theatre practitioners to the principles of play construction, to the process of reading and conceiving plays for production, and to the basic vocabulary of artistic styles through which plays are produced. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Theatre Technical Practice Theatre Technical Practice DRAMA 210 Theatre Technical Practice (4) VLPAIntensive lecture-laboratory in basic theories, techniques, and equipment of the stage. Technical procedures.
Theater^Theatre Technical Practice Theatre Technical Practice DRAMA 211 Theatre Technical Practice (4) VLPA TroutIntensive lecture-laboratory in basic theories, techniques, and equipment of the stage. Costumes.
Theater^Theatre Technical Practice Theatre Technical Practice DRAMA 212 Theatre Technical Practice (4) VLPAIntensive lecture-laboratory in basic theories, techniques, and equipment of the stage. Stage lighting.
Theater^Introduction to Sound Design for Theatre Introduction to Sound Design for Theatre DRAMA 213 Introduction to Sound Design for Theatre (4) VLPAExplores the how and why of sound and music for theatre. Includes different uses for audio in plays; choosing sounds and pieces of music; basic editing of music, environments, and effects; designing a cohesive world of sound.
Theater^Acting Acting DRAMA 251 Acting (5) VLPAExplores theory and practice of fundamentals of American "method," based on principles of Stanislavsky and their American evolution. Development of basic acting skills through monologue work. Offered: AW.
Theater^Acting Acting DRAMA 252 Acting (5) VLPAExplores theory and practice of fundamentals of American "method," based on principles of Stanislavsky and their American evolution. Preparation of audition material and scene work within the context of entire play.
Theater^Performance Practicum Performance Practicum DRAMA 259 Performance Practicum (2-6, max. 12) VLPASpecial work in various aspects of performance technique.
Theater^Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory DRAMA 290 Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory (1-3, max. 3) VLPALaboratory course involving specific production assignment, either in-shop or in-theatre or both. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory DRAMA 291 Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory (1-3, max. 3) VLPALaboratory course involving specific production assignment, either in-shop or in-theatre or both. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory DRAMA 292 Theatre Technical Practices Laboratory (1-3, max. 3) VLPALaboratory course involving specific production assignment, either in-shop or in-theatre or both. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Theatre Production Theatre Production DRAMA 298 Theatre Production (1-2, max. 9) VLPALaboratory course for students participating in School of Drama minor productions and projects. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Critical Analysis of Theatre Critical Analysis of Theatre DRAMA 302 Critical Analysis of Theatre (5) VLPA MihaylovaAnalyses of plays, based on leading critical traditions. Illustrates variety of approaches to a play, criteria for choosing best approach for a given play, and ways in which criticism aids in understanding dramatic effect, for both reader and practitioner.
Theater^The Structure of Dramatic Narrative The Structure of Dramatic Narrative DRAMA 303 The Structure of Dramatic Narrative (5) VLPAExamines the nature and structures of storytelling and the dramatic arts through seminal works on the topic and through examples of narrative from different parts of the world. Combines reading and lectures with student presentation skills. No previous performance experience necessary.
Theater^Introduction to Design for the Performing Arts Introduction to Design for the Performing Arts DRAMA 314 Introduction to Design for the Performing Arts (3) VLPASurvey of the role of design (scenery, costume, lighting, and sound) in the contemporary performing arts. Consideration of communicative mission and limitations of each of the design areas.
Theater^Theatrical Makeup Theatrical Makeup DRAMA 316 Theatrical Makeup (2) VLPABasic principles, with intensive practice in application of makeup for use on proscenium and arena stages.
Theater^Introduction to Costume Construction Introduction to Costume Construction DRAMA 317 Introduction to Costume Construction (2-5, max. 10) VLPAIntroduction to clothing construction techniques applicable to theatrical costumes, fashion design, and textile arts. Includes lectures, demonstrations, and practice lab.
Theater^Intermediate Acting-Scene Study Intermediate Acting-Scene Study DRAMA 351 Intermediate Acting-Scene Study (4) VLPAActor-training methodologies of Stanislavsky, Meyerhold, Michael Chekov, and other physically-based approaches. Increases understanding of psychological motivation, concentration, focus of attention, clarity of physical expressiveness. Perform three scenes.
Theater^Intermediate Acting-Verse Intermediate Acting-Verse DRAMA 352 Intermediate Acting-Verse (4) VLPAAddresses character motivation within classical verse of Shakespeare, Moliere, Racine, etc. Sonnets, monologues, scenes in iambic pentameter and rhyming couplet, exploring rhythm, music, and how these relate to character psychology, motivation.
Theater^Intermediate Acting - Production Intermediate Acting - Production DRAMA 353 Intermediate Acting - Production (4) VLPAExplores the ten-minute play. Focus shifts to full-length play script, developing ensemble playing, sustained concentration, focus of attention, character motivation, and extended through-line. Culminates in public performance.
Theater^Ethnic Studies in Drama Ethnic Studies in Drama DRAMA 365 Ethnic Studies in Drama (3-5, max. 15) VLPA/I&S Curtis-NewtonTheatre and plays, post-World War II to the present. Style, content, and context explored. Emphasis on social, political, and economic milieu from which theatre arose. Playwrights studied may include Alice Childress, August Wilson, Lynn Nottage, Percy Mtwa, Luis Valdez, and Maria Fornes.
Theater^Theatre History I Theatre History I DRAMA 371 Theatre History I (5) VLPA/I&SExplores the history of European theatre and theatre culture from ancient Greece and Rome, through the High Middle Ages, to the emergence of the first professional theatres in Elizabethan England and Spain in the Golden Age..
Theater^Theatre History II Theatre History II DRAMA 372 Theatre History II (5) VLPACovers Western European theatre from Italian Renaissance to the late eighteenth century. Beginning with humanism, examines Renaissance beginnings in Italy and its influence, unique practices in England and France ,and then theatre of the English Restoration, the European Enlightenment, and revolutions in France and America.
Theater^Theatre History III Theatre History III DRAMA 373 Theatre History III (5) VLPAFocuses on major works, forms, and styles of drama in Western European theatre from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. Explores modern and contemporary theatre from the rise of realism to modernist innovations with reference to cultural contexts, interpretive problems, and dramatic criticism.
Theater^History of Greek and Roman Theatre History of Greek and Roman Theatre DRAMA 374 History of Greek and Roman Theatre (5) VLPA JohnsonSurvey of Classical and Hellenistic Greek and Roman theatre culture, including texts, architecture, iconography, scenic practices, and conventions of performance from the Festival of Dionysus to the bloodsports of the Roman arenas.
Theater^History of Medieval and Renaissance Theatre History of Medieval and Renaissance Theatre DRAMA 377 History of Medieval and Renaissance Theatre (5) VLPA JohnsonSurvey of the rise of theatre from the early liturgical drama through the High Middle Ages to the Reformation and the great flowering of secular drama in Elizabethan England and the Golden Age of Spain.
Theater^History of European Theatre, Renaissance to Revolution History of European Theatre, Renaissance to Revolution DRAMA 378 History of European Theatre, Renaissance to Revolution (5) VLPA JohnsonSurvey of the drama, theatre, and theatre culture from the Italian Renaissance through the French Revolution. Examines the rise of court culture, opera, French neo-classicism, as well as the popular commedia dell'arte.
Theater^Beginning Technical Practices Beginning Technical Practices DRAMA 391 Beginning Technical Practices (1-3, max. 9) VLPALaboratory course involving specific production assignments, either in-shop or in-theatre, or both.
Theater^Majors Seminar Majors Seminar DRAMA 401 Majors Seminar (1, max. 2) VLPAA professional seminar featuring guest artists and career development specialists. Offered: W.
Theater^Computer Graphics Systems Computer Graphics Systems DRAMA 405 Computer Graphics Systems (3) VLPAIntroduction to CAD applications in theatre design and technology. Focus on learning to use general purpose graphics software for CAD. Discussion of available hardware and software.
Theater^Digital Cinema Production Digital Cinema Production DRAMA 406 Digital Cinema Production (3-5) VLPA TsaoExplores applied narrative film grammar and cinematic technique. Covers operations of digital cinema equipment including cameras, cinema lighting, and editing software such as Final Cut Studio. Includes lab where students work in a professional motion picture crew structure to implement principles of cinematic narrative and gain experience directing actors on screen.
Theater^Advanced Theatre Technical Practices Advanced Theatre Technical Practices DRAMA 410 Advanced Theatre Technical Practices (2-4, max. 20) VLPAProduction-related apprenticeship, in the areas of scene construction, scene painting, costume, or lighting. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Scene Design Scene Design DRAMA 414 Scene Design (3, max. 6) VLPATheory, practice, and rendering of scene designs. Repeat of course involves intermediate designs and models.
Theater^Stage Costume Design Stage Costume Design DRAMA 415 Stage Costume Design (3, max. 6) VLPA TroutTheory, practice, and rendering of costume designs for the theatre. Repeat of course involves intermediate designs.
Theater^History of Western Dress History of Western Dress DRAMA 416 History of Western Dress (5) VLPA GatesSurvey history of Western dress. Emphasis on use of this information by theatrical costume designers. Includes development of costume for drama, ballet, and opera.
Theater^Stage Costume Patterning and Construction Stage Costume Patterning and Construction DRAMA 417 Stage Costume Patterning and Construction (3, max. 6) VLPATechniques of costume construction, including study of fabrics; emphasis on creating patterns by draping.
Theater^Scene Painting Scene Painting DRAMA 418 Scene Painting (3, max. 6) VLPALecture-laboratory with focus on techniques and principles of scene painting. Uses of various media and types of equipment as applicable to varied scenic pieces.
Theater^Advanced Stage Lighting Design Advanced Stage Lighting Design DRAMA 419 Advanced Stage Lighting Design (3, max. 9) VLPADevelopment of a working process consistent with current professional practice. Includes drafting, worksheets, study of color. Students read plays and develop analytical skills.
Theater^Design and Technical Drafting Design and Technical Drafting DRAMA 420 Design and Technical Drafting (2, max. 4) VLPALaboratory and project critique covering stage design graphics and technical drawing; specifically: designer's elevations, ground plans, sections, detail drawing, transposition of design drawing information to technical drawings.
Theater^Drawing and Rendering Techniques for the Theatre Drawing and Rendering Techniques for the Theatre DRAMA 421 Drawing and Rendering Techniques for the Theatre (2, max. 10) VLPAWeekly figure-drawing laboratories with live model and weekly field trips for laboratories in drawing natural phenomena and architectural detail. Studies in historical drawing styles. Practice in use of several media and techniques of expression.
Theater^Beginning Playwriting Beginning Playwriting DRAMA 441 Beginning Playwriting (1-6, max. 12) VLPAWriting exercises and drafts of a one-act play provide first experience in writing for performance. Readings of representative one-act plays introduce genres and writing styles.
Theater^Advanced Acting - Production Workshop Advanced Acting - Production Workshop DRAMA 451 Advanced Acting - Production Workshop (4) VLPAImprovisation skills. Methodology employed develops one five-minute solo work, using either original or adaptations of non-dramatic texts. Culminates in public showings of the five-minute one-person works.
Theater^Advanced Acting - Scene Study Advanced Acting - Scene Study DRAMA 452 Advanced Acting - Scene Study (4) VLPAInvites actor to create a role. Script reading for action and consequence. Use and employment of five senses to express a character's life, presenting a coherent and alive person to the stage. Culminates in public performance.
Theater^Advanced Acting - Physical Training Advanced Acting - Physical Training DRAMA 453 Advanced Acting - Physical Training (4) VLPAIntroduction to physical training methods of Tadashi Suzuki, Kenji Suzuki, and the relationship of their methodologies to Constantin Stanislavsky. Contemporary monologues analyzed for psychological motivation, while exploring the physical analog of "action" as expressed and accessed by the new physical training.
Theater^Projects in Acting Projects in Acting DRAMA 454 Projects in Acting (3, max. 9) VLPARehearsal and classroom performance of dramatic literature of various periods and styles.
Theater^Alexander Technique Alexander Technique DRAMA 455 Alexander Technique (3) VLPA MaddenA practical and theoretical introduction to the Alexander Technique, a psychophysical re-education process developed by F. M. Alexander (1869-1955). Studio application of this work improves physical/vocal coordination, enhances creativity, and clarifies thinking.
Theater^Topics in Theatre for Youth Topics in Theatre for Youth DRAMA 456 Topics in Theatre for Youth (3-5, max. 10) VLPATopics in rehearsal and performance of theatre for young audiences; basic principles and techniques for using drama in the classroom; and creating original work for young audiences.
Theater^Creating Drama Creating Drama DRAMA 457 Creating Drama (3-5) VLPA Frace, TsaoCovers learning and application of creative methodologies for the theatre artist. Students study established systems of creative development, the use non-dramatic source texts as a foundation for adaptation into dramatic theatre pieces. Emphasizes artistic entrpreneurship, group collaboration, and applied narrative theories.
Theater^Introduction to Directing Introduction to Directing DRAMA 460 Introduction to Directing (4) VLPA Curtis-NewtonStudent is introduced to the art of the stage director.
Theater^Elementary Directing Elementary Directing DRAMA 461 Elementary Directing (4) VLPA Curtis-NewtonElementary study of the art of the stage director.
Theater^Elementary Directing Elementary Directing DRAMA 462 Elementary Directing (4) VLPAElementary study of the art of the stage director.
Theater^Stage Management Stage Management DRAMA 466 Stage Management (2-5, max. 15) VLPA StewartStudy and practice of stage management.
Theater^History of the English Restoration and Eighteenth Century Theatre History of the English Restoration and Eighteenth Century Theatre DRAMA 471 History of the English Restoration and Eighteenth Century Theatre (5) VLPA JohnsonExamination of the relationship of the physical theatre and the productions that took place within that theatre. Particular emphasis on the text performed, styles of acting, scenic elements, and the critical theories that influenced the theatre of the period.
Theater^European and American Theatre, Revolution to Modernism: 1780-1920 European and American Theatre, Revolution to Modernism: 1780-1920 DRAMA 472 European and American Theatre, Revolution to Modernism: 1780-1920 (5) VLPA JohnsonSurvey of the drama, theatre, and theatre culture from the French Revolution into the beginnings of Modernism; social and political aspects of theatre, rise of Romanticism, melodrama, and variety entertainment through the nineteenth century to the artistic revolution that paved the way for modern theatre.
Theater^Modern European Theatre and Drama Modern European Theatre and Drama DRAMA 473 Modern European Theatre and Drama (5) VLPAMajor movements and figures in contemporary European theatre from French absurdism to the present.
Theater^Modern English Theatre and Drama Modern English Theatre and Drama DRAMA 475 Modern English Theatre and Drama (5) VLPAMajor trends in contemporary English theatre, post-World War II to the present. Performers, dramatists, and designers who shaped the course of the theatre following the "angry young rebellion" of the 1950s.
Theater^Modern American Theatre and Drama Modern American Theatre and Drama DRAMA 476 Modern American Theatre and Drama (5) VLPAMajor forces shaping modern American theatre, Eugene O' Neill to the present. Leading dramatists, directors, and designers of the post-World War II era. Experiments such as the Federal Theatre Project, Group Theatre, and Living Theatre.
Theater^The Legacy of Epic Theatre The Legacy of Epic Theatre DRAMA 477 The Legacy of Epic Theatre (5) VLPATraces the historical roots and world-wide influence of epic theatre by studying its plays, performances, ideological aims, and diverse contexts, from its beginnings continuing through to contemporary theater.
Theater^Women in Theatre Women in Theatre DRAMA 478 Women in Theatre (5) VLPAExamines both the inclusion and exclusion of women by the cultural practice of theatre. Has two primary aims: to provide an historical overview of women in playwriting, acting, directing and criticism, and to apply contemporary social issues to the practice, texts, and criticism of the stage.
Theater^Special Studies in Acting-Directing Special Studies in Acting-Directing DRAMA 490 Special Studies in Acting-Directing (1-6, max. 12) VLPA
Theater^Special Studies in Design-Technical Special Studies in Design-Technical DRAMA 491 Special Studies in Design-Technical (1-6, max. 12) VLPA
Theater^Drama Internship Drama Internship DRAMA 493 Drama Internship (1-6, max. 6)Supervised experiences in an off-campus venue.
Theater^Special Studies in Theatre and Drama Special Studies in Theatre and Drama DRAMA 494 Special Studies in Theatre and Drama (5, max. 20) VLPATopics in drama, history, and criticism. See Time Schedule for specific topic.
Theater^Practicum in Design and Technical Theatre Practicum in Design and Technical Theatre DRAMA 495 Practicum in Design and Technical Theatre (2-6, max. 15) VLPAEmphasis on developing design and technology problem-solving skills through laboratory and project evaluation.
Theater^Stage Costume Problems Stage Costume Problems DRAMA 496 Stage Costume Problems (2, max. 8) VLPASpecific research problems of stage costume design and execution: accessories, masks, wigs, fabric modification, millinery, or construction analysis for specialized costumes. Topics vary.
Theater^Theatre Production Theatre Production DRAMA 498 Theatre Production (1-2, max. 9) VLPALaboratory course for students participating in School of Drama major productions. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Designer-Director Analysis Designer-Director Analysis DRAMA 502 Designer-Director Analysis (4)Methods of examining plays to make the collaboration of director and designer productive. Attempts to create a structural whole from visual and verbal approaches to analysis.
Theater^Design Studio Design Studio DRAMA 510 Design Studio (1-5, max. 40) Korf, Lynch, TroutDesign for live performance focused primarily on scenery and costumes. Includes comprehensive investigation of space, form, light, texture, and color in theatre design, interpretation of literary and musical text, understanding of dramatic action, and collaborative communication. Projects include a variety of theatrical and musical genres.
Theater^Advanced Lighting Advanced Lighting DRAMA 512 Advanced Lighting (1-4, max. 28)Intensive training in lighting design for performance. Includes intermediate and advanced paper projects as well as advanced practical projects. Spans a variety of performance genres and environments.
Theater^Design and Technical Theatre Colloquium Design and Technical Theatre Colloquium DRAMA 514 Design and Technical Theatre Colloquium (2, max. 18) Korf, Lynch, TroutDiscussion of work in progress or completed in production, centering on the conceptual work of the designer/director on the production and the methods of execution in the shops and on stage. Offered: AWSp.
Theater^Studies in Historic Design Studies in Historic Design DRAMA 518 Studies in Historic Design (3)Investigation of artistic principles and modes that influenced the art, architecture, furniture, and decor of selected historic periods.
Theater^Advanced Theatre Practicum Advanced Theatre Practicum DRAMA 520 Advanced Theatre Practicum (1-5, max. 15)Professional student internship with professional theatres: scenery, lighting, scene painting, costume, acting, directing, stage management, theatre management.
Theater^Digital Rendering Digital Rendering DRAMA 523 Digital Rendering (3)Covers the basics of digital rendering with an emphasis and application on theatre renderings and sketches. Includes methods of collecting visual research, basic, concepts, and the practical use of software applications.
Theater^Teaching of Acting Teaching of Acting DRAMA 551 Teaching of Acting (1-3, max. 3)Seminar discussion on problems in teaching acting to undergraduate students in DRAMA 251, DRAMA 252, and DRAMA 253.
Theater^Teaching of Acting Teaching of Acting DRAMA 552 Teaching of Acting (1-3, max. 3)Seminar discussion on problems in teaching acting to undergraduate students in DRAMA 251, DRAMA 252, and DRAMA 253.
Theater^Studies in Acting Studies in Acting DRAMA 555 Studies in Acting (2-6, max. 18)Individual or group work on special skills for the actor. Topics vary.
Theater^Studio I Studio I DRAMA 557 Studio I (12, max. 36) Curtis-Newton, Frace, Hafso, Jenkins, Madden, Shahn, Tsao, ZaneSkill development in acting, voice, speech, and movement necessary for professional training in acting.
Theater^Studio II Studio II DRAMA 558 Studio II (12, max. 36) Curtis-Newton, Frace, Hafso, Jenkins, Madden, Shahn, Tsao, ZaneContinuation of DRAMA 557.
Theater^Studio III Studio III DRAMA 559 Studio III (6, max. 18) Curtis-Newton, Frace, Hafso, Jenkins, Madden, Shahn, Tsao, ZaneSpecialized and individualized work relating to the main curriculum of the third year of the Professional Actor Training Program.
Theater^Managing the Rehearsal and Production Process Managing the Rehearsal and Production Process DRAMA 560 Managing the Rehearsal and Production Process (2)Introduction to graduate-level directing. Play analysis, research, performance theory, and concept development as it relates to process-acting and rehearsal, design, staging techniques, and production management. Reading and writing assignments augmented by faculty and professional guests in performance, design, production, and dramaturgy.
Theater^Directing Projects Directing Projects DRAMA 561 Directing Projects (2-3, max. 12)Rehearsal techniques and staging skills in a variety of spatial configurations. One-act and full-length plays which follow a prescribed sequence.
Theater^Performance Studio Performance Studio DRAMA 562 Performance Studio (1-3, max. 12)Performance techniques in specialized areas of importance to the professional director, including stage combat, speech and dialect, mask, physical comedy, improvisation, and puppetry.
Theater^Seminar in Directing Seminar in Directing DRAMA 563 Seminar in Directing (2, max. 18)Seminar discussion of current productions; focused readings and discussion in specific areas of dramatic literature and problems related to stage direction.
Theater^Theatre Studies: History, Theory, Criticism Theatre Studies: History, Theory, Criticism DRAMA 564 Theatre Studies: History, Theory, Criticism (3, max. 15)Special topics in history, theory, and criticism.
Theater^Verse Workshop Verse Workshop DRAMA 565 Verse Workshop (4)Techniques necessary to direct and perform plays of Shakespeare, Moliere, and other verse playwrights: scansion and imagery; period and style using verse text; crowd scenes, transformations of time and space, and other staging exercises; direction of scenes or acts from verse plays.
Theater^Directing for Cinema, Television, and Digital Media I Directing for Cinema, Television, and Digital Media I DRAMA 566 Directing for Cinema, Television, and Digital Media I (3) TsaoCovers the applied methodologies of classic narrative film grammar. Includes the role of the director, in standard production structures, script development and analysis, the language of traditional cinematic storytelling, directing the screen actor, editing, post production, and an examination of new digital media technologies.
Theater^Acting Process Acting Process DRAMA 567 Acting Process (1-3, max. 30)Development of acting skills necessary for the professional director. Emphasis on physical training, playing action, strong internal technique, imagination and clarity of expression.
Theater^Writing for the Stage Writing for the Stage DRAMA 568 Writing for the Stage (3, max. 6)Focus on adaptation for the stage of non-dramatic sources, such as literature, poetry, history, and contemporary events. Emphasis on structure, dialogue, dramatic action, rhythm, characterization. Writing exercises using fictive and non-fictive sources, biographical sources, and found objects. For MFA Directing students only.
Theater^Directing/Teaching Apprenticeship Directing/Teaching Apprenticeship DRAMA 569 Directing/Teaching Apprenticeship (3, max. 6)Assisting faculty or professional guest director in production for the entire rehearsal period, or assisting faculty in performance training.
Theater^Problems in Theatre History Research Problems in Theatre History Research DRAMA 571 Problems in Theatre History Research (5, max. 10) Johnson, PostlewaitMethods and techniques of research, interpretation, and writing in theatre history. Relationship of theatre arts to culture in diverse periods and places.
Theater^Problems in Theatre History Research Problems in Theatre History Research DRAMA 572 Problems in Theatre History Research (5, max. 10) Johnson, PostlewaitMethods and techniques of research, interpretation, and writing in theatre history. Relationship of theatre arts to culture in diverse periods and places.
Theater^Problems in Theatre History Research Problems in Theatre History Research DRAMA 573 Problems in Theatre History Research (5, max. 10) Johnson, PostlewaitMethods and techniques of research, interpretation, and writing in theatre history. Relationship of theatre arts to culture in diverse periods and places.
Theater^Seminar in Theatre History Seminar in Theatre History DRAMA 575 Seminar in Theatre History (5, max. 10) JohnsonSpecific topics in theatre history, examining the drama of various national, linguistic, and/or religious culture in detail.
Theater^Seminar in Theatre History Seminar in Theatre History DRAMA 576 Seminar in Theatre History (5, max. 10) JohnsonSpecific topics in theatre history, examining the drama of various national, linguistic, and/or religious culture in detail.
Theater^Seminar in Theatre History Seminar in Theatre History DRAMA 577 Seminar in Theatre History (5, max. 10) JohnsonSpecific topics in theatre history, examining the drama of various national, linguistic, and/or religious culture in detail.
Theater^Analysis of Dramatic Texts Analysis of Dramatic Texts DRAMA 581 Analysis of Dramatic Texts (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVAAnalytic approaches to dramatic materials, concentrating on semiotics, Marxism, feminism, or a related critical theory.
Theater^Analysis of Dramatic Texts Analysis of Dramatic Texts DRAMA 582 Analysis of Dramatic Texts (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVAAnalytic approaches to dramatic materials, concentrating on semiotics, Marxism, feminism, or a related critical theory.
Theater^Analysis of Dramatic Texts Analysis of Dramatic Texts DRAMA 583 Analysis of Dramatic Texts (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVAAnalytic approaches to dramatic materials, concentrating on semiotics, Marxism, feminism, or a related critical theory.
Theater^Seminar in Dramatic Theory Seminar in Dramatic Theory DRAMA 585 Seminar in Dramatic Theory (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVAMajor problems in dramatic theory, such as aesthetics, mimesis, and the nature of theatre.
Theater^Seminar in Dramatic Theory Seminar in Dramatic Theory DRAMA 586 Seminar in Dramatic Theory (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVAMajor problems in dramatic theory, such as aesthetics, mimesis, and the nature of theatre.
Theater^Seminar in Dramatic Theory Seminar in Dramatic Theory DRAMA 587 Seminar in Dramatic Theory (5, max. 10) S. MIHAYLOVAMajor problems in dramatic theory, such as aesthetics, mimesis, and the nature of theatre.
Theater^Advanced Studies in Theatre Arts Advanced Studies in Theatre Arts DRAMA 599 Advanced Studies in Theatre Arts (1-5, max. 20)Independent projects or group study of specialized aspects of theatre arts.
Accounting^Accounting for Problem Solving Accounting for Problem Solving ACCTG 199 Accounting for Problem Solving (2, max. 4)Supplementary lectures, discussions, and problem- solving sessions in introductory accounting. Enrollment priority to EOP students and others by permission. Credit may not be applied to fulfill specific program requirements. Corequisite: ACCTG 215. Offered: AWSp.
Accounting^Introduction to Accounting and Financial Reporting Introduction to Accounting and Financial Reporting ACCTG 215 Introduction to Accounting and Financial Reporting (5)Nature and social setting of accounting; uses of accounting information; introduction of basic accounting concepts and procedures; interpretation of financial statements. May not be repeated. Offered: AWSpS.
Accounting^Fundamentals of Managerial Accounting Fundamentals of Managerial Accounting ACCTG 225 Fundamentals of Managerial Accounting (5)Analyses and evaluation of accounting information as part of the managerial process of planning, decision making, and control. Concentrates on information useful to enterprise managers.
Accounting^Accounting and Finance Essentials Accounting and Finance Essentials ACCTG 275 Accounting and Finance Essentials (3) QSR PapermanExplores the economic foundations of accounting systems. Discusses the short-term and long-term implications of using accounting information to evaluate performance, create budgets, and analyze financial statements. Not open for credit to students pursuing a business degree. Offered: Sp.
Accounting^Intermediate Accounting I Intermediate Accounting I ACCTG 301 Intermediate Accounting I (4)Concepts and principles of financial accounting. Analysis of controversies and problems related to the measurement of enterprise income and asset and liability valuation.
Accounting^Intermediate Accounting II Intermediate Accounting II ACCTG 302 Intermediate Accounting II (4)Concepts and principles of financial accounting. Analysis of controversies and problems related to the measurement of enterprise income and asset and liability valuation.
Accounting^Intermediate Accounting III Intermediate Accounting III ACCTG 303 Intermediate Accounting III (4)Concepts and principles of financial accounting. Analysis of controversies and problems related to the measurement of enterprise income and asset and liability valuation.
Accounting^Cost Accounting Cost Accounting ACCTG 311 Cost Accounting (4)Introduction to the theory of cost accounting; job order, process, and standard cost systems; overhead accounting; problems in accumulation and allocation of costs; decision making with cost data.
Accounting^Introduction to Accounting Information Systems Introduction to Accounting Information Systems ACCTG 320 Introduction to Accounting Information Systems (4)Concepts of accounting information systems in organizations. Processes of analyzing and designing accounting information systems, with emphasis on those using computer facilities. Internal controls and auditing considerations.
Accounting^Tax Effects of Business Decisions Tax Effects of Business Decisions ACCTG 321 Tax Effects of Business Decisions (4)Issues in taxation, including tax considerations in business decision making, tax effects of business transactions, taxation of compensation, fringe benefits, capital gains, fixed asset transactions, disposition of business distribution from corporations.
Accounting^Topics in Financial Reporting Topics in Financial Reporting ACCTG 375 Topics in Financial Reporting (4)Critical examination of the uses and limitations of general purpose financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Not open for credit to accounting majors or to students who have completed ACCTG 301.
Accounting^Auditing Standards and Principles Auditing Standards and Principles ACCTG 411 Auditing Standards and Principles (4)Intensive introduction to the attest function in society today. The environment, the process, and the report of the public auditor are analyzed. Potential extensions of the attest function are examined.
Accounting^Database Management for Accounting Database Management for Accounting ACCTG 420 Database Management for Accounting (4)Continuation of ACCTG 320, covering database and processing architectures, database reliability, database recovery, database security, database administration, internets and intranets, and network security. Not available for credit to information systems majors or to students who have completed I S 410 and I S 445.
Accounting^Accounting and Financial Management Decisions Accounting and Financial Management Decisions ACCTG 440 Accounting and Financial Management Decisions (4)Business financial planning with an emphasis of the role of accounting information in financial decisions. Topics include the accounting and finance aspects of business valuation, short and long term financing, short and long term investments, alternative types of debt and equity financing, and related topics.
Accounting^Business Taxation Business Taxation ACCTG 450 Business Taxation (4)Issues of taxation for entities other than individuals, including corporations, subchapter S corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts. Includes corporate distributions, liquidations, and reorganizations.
Accounting^Individual Income Taxation Individual Income Taxation ACCTG 451 Individual Income Taxation (4)Political, economic, and social forces influencing federal income taxation, role of taxation in personal decisions. Coverage of individual income tax matters, including business and investment income, business and personal deductions, property transactions, and tax issues of employees.
Accounting^Advanced Cost Accounting Advanced Cost Accounting ACCTG 460 Advanced Cost Accounting (4)Advanced analysis of cost and management accounting problems; special applications of cost accounting techniques for management planning and control; current developments in cost accounting.
Accounting^Fraud Examination Fraud Examination ACCTG 471 Fraud Examination (4)Provides a comprehensive introduction to the concepts and techniques of the fraud examination process.
Accounting^Accounting for Not-for-Profit Organizations Accounting for Not-for-Profit Organizations ACCTG 480 Accounting for Not-for-Profit Organizations (4)Fund and budgetary accounting as applied to public sector organizations, such as governments, foundations, hospitals, and colleges.
Accounting^Advanced Financial Accounting Advanced Financial Accounting ACCTG 485 Advanced Financial Accounting (4)Accounting for partnerships, accounting for business combinations, parent-subsidiary and branch relationships, foreign exchange.
Accounting^Special Topics in Accounting Special Topics in Accounting ACCTG 490 Special Topics in Accounting (1-6, max. 6)Special topics of current concern to faculty and students. Offered only when faculty is available and student interest is sufficient. Class is announced in advance of scheduled offerings.
Accounting^Accounting Internship Accounting Internship ACCTG 495 Accounting Internship (1-4, max. 8)One quarter's internship with a certified public accounting firm, industrial organization, or government agency.
Accounting^Financial Accounting Financial Accounting ACCTG 500 Financial Accounting (4)Introduction to concepts and procedures underlying determination and presentation of information for financial decisions by investors and other decision makers outside the business enterprise. Study of problems of valuation, income determination, and financial reporting.
Accounting^Managerial Accounting Managerial Accounting ACCTG 501 Managerial Accounting (4)Study of the generation and the use of accounting information within the firm for purposes of planning and controlling operations. Topics covered include cost concepts, responsibility accounting systems, cost control, and the use of accounting information in short- and long-term management decision problems.
Accounting^Introduction to Accounting for Managers Introduction to Accounting for Managers ACCTG 503 Introduction to Accounting for Managers (4)Provides potential managers with a basic knowledge of financial and managerial accounting. Focuses on the use, not the preparation, of accounting information. Examples presented for a variety of for-profit and nonprofit organizations.
Accounting^Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices ACCTG 505 Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices (18)Covers the subjects in the required core for undergraduate accounting majors: intermediate accounting, advanced accounting, cost accounting, auditing, and tax accounting. Credits do not count toward MBA degree.
Accounting^Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices I Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices I ACCTG 506 Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices I (6)First of an intensive three-course program. Emphasizes the practical application of accounting concepts in a business setting. Credits do not count toward MBA degree.
Accounting^Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices II Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices II ACCTG 507 Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices II (6)Second of an intensive three-course program. Covers the third part of financial accounting, accrual-based financial statements, and cost accounting for decision-making. Credits do not count toward MBA degree.
Accounting^Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices III Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices III ACCTG 508 Intensive Analysis of Accounting Principles and Practices III (6)
Accounting^Introduction to Financial Statement Analysis Introduction to Financial Statement Analysis ACCTG 510 Introduction to Financial Statement Analysis (4)Extension of the core financial accounting material, focusing on the use of financial statements to assess the financial position and prospects of companies. Examines the critical financial reporting issues that influence interpretation of financial statements.
Accounting^Advanced Financial Statement Analysis Advanced Financial Statement Analysis ACCTG 511 Advanced Financial Statement Analysis (4)Covers accounting issues related to firm valuation and use of financial statement information to assess the risks and rewards of various firm strategies.
Accounting^Tax Effects of Business Decisions Tax Effects of Business Decisions ACCTG 513 Tax Effects of Business Decisions (4)Importance of tax considerations in making business decisions. Covers regulatory and economic impacts of the U. S. tax system.
Accounting^Problems in Managerial and Cost Accounting Problems in Managerial and Cost Accounting ACCTG 515 Problems in Managerial and Cost Accounting (4)Extension of the core management accounting material. Uses cases and discussion to analyze costing techniques, use of accounting data in planning and evaluation of managerial performance, and use of accounting data in short-run and long-run decisions.
Accounting^Cases and Issues in Information Quality and Assurance Services Cases and Issues in Information Quality and Assurance Services ACCTG 521 Cases and Issues in Information Quality and Assurance Services (4)Analysis of cases and discussions of current issues dealing with assurance services.
Accounting^Advanced Financial Analysis Advanced Financial Analysis ACCTG 523 Advanced Financial Analysis (4)Explores the use of published financial reports by decision makers external to the firm (e.g. investors and creditors). Emphasis is on traditional and statistical analyses of financial statements for the purposes of making economic decisions.
Accounting^Individual Taxation Individual Taxation ACCTG 524 Individual Taxation (4)Political, economic, and social forces influencing federal income taxation, role of taxation in personal decisions. Coverage of individual tax matters, including business and investment income, business and personal deductions, property transactions, and tax issues of employees.
Accounting^Business and International Taxation Business and International Taxation ACCTG 525 Business and International Taxation (4)Issues of taxation for entities other than individuals, including corporations, subchapter S corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts. Includes corporate distributions, liquidations, and reorganizations. International dimensions of business taxation introduced.
Accounting^Principles of Taxation for Auditors Principles of Taxation for Auditors ACCTG 526 Principles of Taxation for Auditors (4)Raises level of understanding of the tax law and enables intelligent conversation about business income tax topics. Covers flow-through entities (partnerships, S. Corps & LLCs), corporate taxation, non-taxable exchanges, and planning techniques.
Accounting^Communications in Professional Accounting Communications in Professional Accounting ACCTG 527 Communications in Professional Accounting (4)Introduction to the communications practices of professional accountants. Development of effective written and oral skills employed in accounting presentations such as audit reports. Study of results of organizational communications research applicable to accounting firms and units within firms.
Accounting^Communications, Marketing, and Interpersonal Skills for Auditors Communications, Marketing, and Interpersonal Skills for Auditors ACCTG 528 Communications, Marketing, and Interpersonal Skills for Auditors (4)Emphasizes improving interpersonal skills and students' abilities to market their firm.
Accounting^Business Ethics and Law for Accountants Business Ethics and Law for Accountants ACCTG 529 Business Ethics and Law for Accountants (4)Explores basic legal and ethical principles underlying the practice of accounting. Special attention devoted to spotting legal and ethical issues as they arise in a commercial and professional context.
Accounting^Tax Issues in Property Ownership Tax Issues in Property Ownership ACCTG 530 Tax Issues in Property Ownership (4)Analysis of gain and loss realization, recognition, and characterization of such. Detailed exploration of statutory and case law regarding acquisition, ownership, and disposition of assets. Treatment of capital and ordinary gains and losses. Timing issues regarding deferral transactions and installment reporting are analyzed.
Accounting^Timing and Periods of Taxation Timing and Periods of Taxation ACCTG 531 Timing and Periods of Taxation (3)Analysis of the cash and accrual methods of accounting, choice of taxable period and multi-period transaction analysis. Consideration of statute of limitations and mitigation thereof. Details of passive activity losses.
Accounting^Procedural and Policy Issues Procedural and Policy Issues ACCTG 533 Procedural and Policy Issues (3)Analysis of the procedures of federal taxation: assessment, collection, and refund claims. Detailed exploration of the rules governing the statute of limitations and the mitigation thereof. An introduction to tax policy considerations is given. Tax penalties are explored.
Accounting^Fundamentals of Corporate Taxation Fundamentals of Corporate Taxation ACCTG 534 Fundamentals of Corporate Taxation (3)Detailed analysis of contribution of assets to corporations. Calculation of recognized gains and basic effects of asset contributions. Treatment of income and deduction items of corporate operations. Analysis of distribution of assets to shareholders with respect to their stock.
Accounting^Advanced Issues in Corporate Taxation Advanced Issues in Corporate Taxation ACCTG 535 Advanced Issues in Corporate Taxation (3)A continuation of ACCTG 534. Fundamentals of moving assets out of and within corporate solution. Basics of corporate reorganizations: acquisitive and divisive. The details of the election to obtain (or avoid) the Section 338 election are explored in detail.
Accounting^Advanced Issues in Corporate Taxation Advanced Issues in Corporate Taxation ACCTG 536 Advanced Issues in Corporate Taxation (3)Continuation of ACCTG 534 and ACCTG 535. Study of complex issues in corporate taxation planning. Substantial portion of course involves resolving case studies to improve analytic skills and to interrelate disparate corporate planning opportunities. Corporate reorganizations are analyzed in detail.
Accounting^Income Taxation of Conduits I Income Taxation of Conduits I ACCTG 537 Income Taxation of Conduits I (3)Tax consequences to owners and entity from formation, operation, distributions from, and liquidation of partnerships and S corporations. Study of taxable and tax-free formations, nature of "bottom line" income and separately stated items, changes to owners' tax basis, basics of non-liquidating and liquidating distributions.
Accounting^Income Taxation of Conduits II Income Taxation of Conduits II ACCTG 538 Income Taxation of Conduits II (3)A continuation of ACCTG 537. Study of complex issues in partnership and S corporation taxation. Substantial portion involves resolving case studies to improve analytic skills and interrelate partnership and S corporation planning issues. Sections 751(b) and 736 examined in detail.
Accounting^Tax Research and Decision Making Tax Research and Decision Making ACCTG 539 Tax Research and Decision Making (4)Decision-making processes in relation to problems of taxation. Tools of tax analysis and research and the communication of conclusions flowing from professional tax work. Role of the professional accountant in client business transactions and in negotiations with taxing authorities is highlighted and simulated on the basis of actual case histories.
Accounting^Communications for Taxation Professionals I Communications for Taxation Professionals I ACCTG 540 Communications for Taxation Professionals I (4)Focuses on internal communications in an accounting firm setting. Evaluation of difficult tax question and practice communicating advice and explanations to colleagues and managers.
Accounting^Communications for Taxation Professionals II Communications for Taxation Professionals II ACCTG 541 Communications for Taxation Professionals II (4)Introduction to the communications forms and to practices of professional accountants and accounting managers. Development of effective written and oral skills employed in accounting presentations, such as audit reports and consultants' reports. Study of results of organizational communications research applicable to accounting firms and/or units within firms.
Accounting^Communications for Taxation Professionals III Communications for Taxation Professionals III ACCTG 542 Communications for Taxation Professionals III (4)Development of oral and written skills associated with the tax accountant's role as a client advocate. Develop communication production related to the various stages of a tax case.
Accounting^Income Taxation of Trusts and Estates Income Taxation of Trusts and Estates ACCTG 543 Income Taxation of Trusts and Estates (3)Development of fundamental skills regarding income taxation of trusts and estates. Calculation of distributable net income and the distribution deduction for the fiduciary entity. Basic analysis of the throwback rules. Case studies.
Accounting^Estate and Gift Taxation Estate and Gift Taxation ACCTG 547 Estate and Gift Taxation (3)Development of fundamental knowledge of the unified transfer tax on the transfer of property from one person to another. Calculation of gross estate, adjusted gross estate, and taxable estate. Calculation of gift and estate taxes owing. Discussion of estate planning concepts.
Accounting^Speaker Forum-Tax Speaker Forum-Tax ACCTG 548 Speaker Forum-Tax (3)Covers topics such as state and local taxation, international taxation, interperiod tax allocation, qualified and nonqualified stock options, the R&D credit, and IRS audit issues presented by practicing professionals in the industry.
Accounting^Tax Planning Tax Planning ACCTG 549 Tax Planning (4)Advanced issues in tax planning. Think strategically about tax planning. Adjunct lecturers simulate client interviews and simulate presenting factual concepts and planning ideas to clients.
Accounting^Governmental Accounting Governmental Accounting ACCTG 564 Governmental Accounting (4)Budgetary and financial accounting/reporting as applied at the state, local, and special-purpose governments; financial accounting and reporting for not-for-profit organizations.
Accounting^Issues in International Accounting Issues in International Accounting ACCTG 566 Issues in International Accounting (4)Insights into the conceptual, managerial, professional, and institutional issues of international accounting. Focus on current topics in international accounting and on the cultural, managerial, and governmental forces that shape both internal and external accounting in specific countries.
Accounting^Internship Internship ACCTG 575 Internship (14)Professional internship in graduate accounting program.
Accounting^Independent Research Project Proposal Independent Research Project Proposal ACCTG 576 Independent Research Project Proposal (2-)Topic identification and development for research project to be completed in ACCTG 577.
Accounting^Independent Research Project Proposal Independent Research Project Proposal ACCTG 577 Independent Research Project Proposal (-4)Development and completion of independent research project. Topic identification and proposal approval completed in ACCTG 576.
Accounting^Special Topics in Accounting Special Topics in Accounting ACCTG 579 Special Topics in Accounting (2/4, max. 12)Accounting topics of current concern to faculty and students. Offered only when faculty are available and sufficient student interest exists. Seminar content announced in advance of scheduled offering.
Accounting^Doctoral Seminar: Introduction to Accounting Research Doctoral Seminar: Introduction to Accounting Research ACCTG 580 Doctoral Seminar: Introduction to Accounting Research (4)Examination of research problems and techniques in accounting. Interdisciplinary nature of accounting research emphasized. Work in finance, economics, and psychology used to develop current trends in accounting research.
Accounting^Doctoral Seminar in Managerial Accounting Doctoral Seminar in Managerial Accounting ACCTG 581 Doctoral Seminar in Managerial Accounting (4)Critical examination of conceptual and practical issues of cost and managerial accounting. Specific topics may change from quarter to quarter, and they include application of behavioral, quantitative, and economic models to managerial accounting problems.
Accounting^PhD Research Seminar: Introduction to Selected Research Topics PhD Research Seminar: Introduction to Selected Research Topics ACCTG 582 PhD Research Seminar: Introduction to Selected Research Topics (4)Introduces first-year and second-year accounting PhD students to the research areas and methodologies of the current account faculty. Research areas include financial, managerial, audit, and tax. Research methodologies include analytical, archival, experiments, and surveys.
Accounting^Doctoral Seminar in Financial Accounting Research Doctoral Seminar in Financial Accounting Research ACCTG 596 Doctoral Seminar in Financial Accounting Research (4)Review and critical analysis of research strategies and methods applied to problems in financial reporting practice and financial accounting standard setting.
Accounting^Doctoral Seminar in Managerial Accounting Research Doctoral Seminar in Managerial Accounting Research ACCTG 597 Doctoral Seminar in Managerial Accounting Research (4)Critical analysis of current managerial accounting research, both published and unpublished.
Accounting^Doctoral Seminar in Accounting Doctoral Seminar in Accounting ACCTG 599 Doctoral Seminar in Accounting (1, max. 12)Study and research in advanced topics of accounting. Generally concerned with unpublished areas of research as well as research methodology and philosophy. Conducted by departmental faculty and occasional distinguished visiting faculty.
Management^Introduction to Law Introduction to Law MGMT 200 Introduction to Law (5) I&SLegal institutions and processes; law as a system of social thought and behavior and a frame of order within which rival claims are resolved and compromised; legal reasoning; law as a process of protecting and facilitating voluntary arrangements in a business society. Offered: AWSp.
Management^Management Essentials Management Essentials MGMT 275 Management Essentials (3) I&S McPhersonExplores management and leadership through understanding individuals, teams, and organizations. Discusses relevant concepts and applications of strategic planning, problem solving, conflict management, negotiation, change management, and control systems. Also covers current issues regarding ethical behavior, social responsibility, and diversity. Not open for credit to students pursuing a business degree. Offered: W.
Management^Leadership and Organizational Behavior Leadership and Organizational Behavior MGMT 300 Leadership and Organizational Behavior (4)Focuses on how managers become effective leaders. Examines basic principles of managing people, making use of theories that transcend the workplace, including the psychology of individual and group behavior. Emphasizes leadership, strategic thinking, team building, and performance. Offered: AWSpS.
Management^Managing Human Resources Managing Human Resources MGMT 311 Managing Human Resources (4)The personnel/industrial relations function from a managerial perspective. Selection, compensation, performance appraisal, and training and development. Special emphasis on union-management relations and relevant behavior science research. Offered: A.
Management^Career Development Workshop Career Development Workshop MGMT 312 Career Development Workshop (2)Develops career goals in business administration and guides students toward the academic training that achieves their goals. Emphasizes development of the personal skills necessary to market oneself in a competitive marketplace and present oneself to potential employers.
Management^Business, Government, and Society Business, Government, and Society MGMT 320 Business, Government, and Society (4)Political, social, and legal environment of business. Critical managerial issues from historical, theoretical, ethical perspectives; their impact on organization. Corporate political power, boards of directors, capitalism, industrial policy, business ethics and social responsibility, alternative corporate roles in society. Offered: AWSpS.
Management^Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility MGMT 323 Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility (4)Philosophical and pragmatic perspectives, including values and social/ethical premises in organizational decision making. Several issues covered in depth; investments abroad, hazardous products, bribery, industry practices, and others. Offered: Sp.
Management^Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making MGMT 401 Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making (4)The manager as leader and decision maker. Various leadership theories, styles, and behaviors. Decision-making models and techniques. Offered: jointly with ENTRE 401.
Management^Deal-Making and Negotiations Deal-Making and Negotiations MGMT 402 Deal-Making and Negotiations (4)The art and science of negotiations with the goal of making students more effective negotiators in a variety of business situations, such as budget negotiations, buying and selling, contracts, and merger negotiations. Concept and skill development. Offered: AWSp.
Management^Motivating High Performance Motivating High Performance MGMT 403 Motivating High Performance (4)Various strategies for influencing employee motivation and performance. Reward systems, goal-setting procedures, and various techniques to enlarge and enrich one's job. Effects of these formal and informal strategies on job attitudes. Offered: ASp.
Management^Recruiting and Hiring Talent Recruiting and Hiring Talent MGMT 411 Recruiting and Hiring Talent (4)Affirmative action, recruitment, testing, interviewing, placement, promotion, and overall human resource planning.
Management^Performance Appraisal and Compensation Performance Appraisal and Compensation MGMT 412 Performance Appraisal and Compensation (4)The various kinds of systems used by organizations to evaluate and reward employee performance. Job analysis, job evaluation, setting performance standards, giving appraisal feedback, designing incentive systems, administering a salary plan.
Management^Strategic Management Strategic Management MGMT 430 Strategic Management (4)Develops strategic thinking skills for balancing opportunities and risks of business competition to generate superior value for stakeholders. Performs in-depth analyses of industries and competitors, predicts competitive behavior, and explores how firms develop and sustain competitive advantage over time.
Management^Business Consulting Business Consulting MGMT 440 Business Consulting (4)Integrates knowledge and tools from the undergraduate business core curriculum with a focus on consulting. Students learn theoretical frameworks and develop proficiencies in a wide range of skills. Students gain practical experiences working in teams and assisting local organizations to solving immediate business issues. Offered: Sp.
Management^Multicultural Marketing and Business Development Multicultural Marketing and Business Development MGMT 445 Multicultural Marketing and Business Development (4) DIVIntegrates tools from marketing, consulting, and multi-cultural business management to provide consulting services to small business in economically-distressed communities. Working in teams with assistance from industry mentors and alumni from the course, students gain practical experience in multi-cultural marketing, consulting, and managing a business.
Management^Special Topics in Management Special Topics in Management MGMT 490 Special Topics in Management (1-6, max. 6)Topics of current interest to faculty and students. Offered when allowed by faculty availability and sufficient student interest. Content announced in advance of scheduled offerings.
Management^Management Internship Management Internship MGMT 495 Management Internship (1-4, max. 8)Internship with a private firm, nonprofit organization, or government agency, where work experience involves substantial application of management concepts learned in classroom.
Management^Management and Leadership Management and Leadership MGMT 500 Management and Leadership (4)Behavioral aspects of management with emphasis on leadership, motivation, and decision making. May include communication, conflict management, group dynamics, and organizational change.
Management^Business Strategy Business Strategy MGMT 502 Business Strategy (4)Policy decisions and strategic leadership from the general management point of view. Determination of corporate product-service objectives, development of a network of internal operating policies and methods to achieve objectives at a cost satisfactory to the consumer and to society.
Management^Ethical Leadership Ethical Leadership MGMT 504 Ethical Leadership (4)Examines the ethical aspects of conducting business. Topics include ethical decision-making, the ethical aspects of leadership and culture, stakeholder management, corporate social responsibility, sustainability, and corporate governance.
Management^Global Strategy Global Strategy MGMT 509 Global Strategy (2)Develops a broad overview of many of the issues that global managers face including government-MNE relations, global strategy, entry modes, country analysis, national culture, and the social responsibility of a global enterprise.
Management^Developing Leadership Skills Developing Leadership Skills MGMT 510 Developing Leadership Skills ([0-2]-, max. 2)Assessment, instruction , and coaching to develop leadership abilities. Emphasizes team building and collaboration, written, oral, and interpersonal communication, and applied leadership activities.
Management^Leadership and Coaching Practicum Leadership and Coaching Practicum MGMT 511 Leadership and Coaching Practicum (2, max. 4)Gives Leadership Fellows a venue to analyze and assess their coaching activities with first-year MBA student teams, receive feedback from the instructor and their fellow coaches, discuss readings on leadership, coaching, collaboration, and communication, and hear guest speakers on related topics.
Management^Designing a Corporate Strategy Designing a Corporate Strategy MGMT 520 Designing a Corporate Strategy (4)Addresses the broad question: what business(es) should we compete in? Focuses on decisions related to an appropriate level of diversification and the means by which that diversification is implemented. Includes the following issues: mergers and acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, LBOs, and spin-offs.
Management^Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation MGMT 521 Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation (4)Examines how innovative firms often experience rapid and disruptive levels of growth and change and how without effective management of new technologies, the boom can quickly turn to bust. Investigates the micro-economic drivers of competition in technology industries, explores how technological change affects competition, and examines the implications for competitive strategy.
Management^Innovation Strategy Innovation Strategy MGMT 522 Innovation Strategy (4)Explores how firms tap into external sources of innovation, focusing on user communities, universities, and entrepreneurial ventures. Demonstrates how open, collaborative, community-based models of innovation create successful business options. Offered: jointly with ENTRE 522.
Management^Business Ethics in a High Technology Environment Business Ethics in a High Technology Environment MGMT 523 Business Ethics in a High Technology Environment (4)Examines business ethics from philosophical, theoretical, and pragmatic perspectives. Explores ethical theory and values in business. Attempts to place ethical concepts into a framework useful to practicing managers. Places emphasis on the ethical implications of rapidly changing hi-tech environments such as e-commerce and biotech.
Management^Competing in the Global Economy Competing in the Global Economy MGMT 526 Competing in the Global Economy (4) Dewenter, SteensmaExamines the global environment for business and the challenges facing managers in this environment. Explores the implications of the common phrase "think globally - act locally." Offered: WSp.
Management^Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship MGMT 530 Entrepreneurship (4)Entrepreneurship, both in the form of (1) establishment of new independent businesses owned largely by those who manage them and (2) initiation of new enterprises having exceptional autonomy within larger organizations that finance and own them. Basic knowledge in accounting, marketing, and finance is assumed.
Management^Managing Intellectual Property Rights Managing Intellectual Property Rights MGMT 531 Managing Intellectual Property Rights (4)Comprehensive analysis of the issues pertinent to the various forms of intellectual property, including how to recognize, develop, maintain, and capitalize on them.
Management^Managing Human Capital Managing Human Capital MGMT 540 Managing Human Capital (4)Covers principles and techniques for recruiting, selecting, and developing employees, appraising their performance, and rewarding their contributions. Explores key topics primarily through case studies, readings, class discussion, and fieldwork. Reviews legal and regulatory issues that surround these methods. Intended for both general managers and human resource professionals.
Management^Managing Effectively Across Cultures Managing Effectively Across Cultures MGMT 544 Managing Effectively Across Cultures (4) ChenExamines how, with increasing globalization of business, employees at all levels of corporations often work and interact with people from different nations, cultures. and how they need an understanding of cross-cultural management and challenges of international settings. Focuses on international organizational behavior and international human resource issues, practices. Offered: W.
Management^Leading and Managing High-Performance Organizations Leading and Managing High-Performance Organizations MGMT 545 Leading and Managing High-Performance Organizations (4)Focuses on the nature and function of effective leadership in high-performance systems. Includes visionary and transformational leadership, decision-making and empowerment, power and influence in organizations desiring flexibility and innovation, and leading organizational change. Places emphasis on leadership of emerging forms of organization such as learning organizations, virtual organizations, and networks.
Management^High Involvement Employees High Involvement Employees MGMT 546 High Involvement Employees (4)Focuses on two domains: (1) how managers can lead and motivate their people; and (2) how actual organizations, particularly high technology and entrepreneurial firms, employ these strategies. Specific topics include commitment, involvement, enthusiasm, effort, participation, citizenship, and performance. Student teams investigate how local companies utilize these ideas.
Management^Successful Negotiations Successful Negotiations MGMT 547 Successful Negotiations (2)Focuses on a broad array of conflict resolution skills needed for effective management in a constantly changing business environment. Examines methods of conflict resolution - bargaining, distributive and integrative negotiation, mediation, and arbitration. Applies these tools to managerial challenges such as employment contracts, buyer-seller agreements, and mediated and arbitrated agreements.
Management^Dealmaking in High Velocity Ventures Dealmaking in High Velocity Ventures MGMT 548 Dealmaking in High Velocity Ventures (2)Focuses on negotiations in ventures that lack conventional customers, suppliers, employees, joint-venture partners, strategic allies, and money. Analyzes negotiations with early potential customers and essential suppliers, sources of funding (e.g., "angels" and venture capitalists), critical partners and/or strategic allies (including established firms), and key employees.
Management^Dealmaking in the Global Arena Dealmaking in the Global Arena MGMT 549 Dealmaking in the Global Arena (2)For students who expect to engage in significant international business negotiations. Includes deal-structuring skills needed in a range of cross-border transactions and relationships. Individual segments develop broad analytical themes, cross-cultural dimensions, and distinctive national approaches to corporate governance and their impact on negotiating strategy.
Management^Special Topics in Management Special Topics in Management MGMT 579 Special Topics in Management (2/4, max. 12)In-depth study and research on topics of special interest to faculty members and students in the fields of human resources management, organizational behavior, and strategic management. Offered on an ad hoc basis. Content announced before scheduled offering.
Management^Psychological Foundations of Organizational Behavior Psychological Foundations of Organizational Behavior MGMT 580 Psychological Foundations of Organizational Behavior (4)Focuses on attributes the individual brings to the organization. Covers important performance-related processes such as learning, motivation, and decision-making as well as an understanding of personal attitudes and personality traits.
Management^Social Processes in Organizations Social Processes in Organizations MGMT 581 Social Processes in Organizations (4)Focuses on ways in which the individual and the organization get things done through working with others. Includes leadership, social influence, and the use and abuse of power, with attention given to positive organizational activities such as citizenship behavior and extra role activities.
Management^Contemporary Organizational Behavior Research Contemporary Organizational Behavior Research MGMT 582 Contemporary Organizational Behavior Research (4)Facilitates understanding of empirical foundations of theory development and testing in contemporary organizational behavior research. Focuses on assessing ways in which the empirical tradition has evolved in organizational behavior with special attention paid to emerging research areas and research methodologies.
Management^Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research I Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research I MGMT 583 Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research I (4)Focuses on the psychological, social psychological, and sociological factors that shape organizations and their members. Covers concepts such as cognition, emotions, identity, communication, group dynamics, team development, organizational culture, global culture, behavioral ethics, etc.
Management^Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research II Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research II MGMT 584 Special Topics in Organizational Behavior Research II (4)Focuses on the psychological, social psychological, and sociological factors that shape organizations and their members. Covers concepts such as cognition, emotions, identity, communication, group dynamics, team development, organizational culture, global culture, behavioral ethics, etc. in more depth.
Management^Economic Foundations of Strategic Management Economic Foundations of Strategic Management MGMT 590 Economic Foundations of Strategic Management (4)Reviews the economic theories that support strategies pursued by firms and explores the links between market processes, firm strategy, and firm performance. Topics include agency theory, transaction cost economics, resource dependence, population ecology, and neo-Austrian economics.
Management^Sociological Foundations of Strategic Management Sociological Foundations of Strategic Management MGMT 591 Sociological Foundations of Strategic Management (4)Explores the sociology of organizations from multiple perspectives while introducing fundamental sociological questions and preparing students for conducting research in organizations. Emphasis on structural contingencies, institutions, resource dependence, population ecology, negotiated order and culture, organizational learning and decision making, organizational power and politics, networks, and inter-organizational relations.
Management^Contemporary Strategic Management Research Contemporary Strategic Management Research MGMT 592 Contemporary Strategic Management Research (4)Facilitates understanding of empirical foundations of theory development and testing in contemporary strategic management research. Focuses on evaluation of ways in which the empirical tradition has evolved in the strategic management area. Attention to evaluating research methodologies used in the field.
Management^Special Topics in Strategic Management I Special Topics in Strategic Management I MGMT 593 Special Topics in Strategic Management I (4)
Management^Special Topics in Strategic Management II Special Topics in Strategic Management II MGMT 594 Special Topics in Strategic Management II (4)Focuses on the social and political factors that help shape corporate strategy using stakeholder management as an integrating concept. Topics include corporate governance, corporate political activity, governmental regulation, comparative political economy, and normative aspects of strategic management, including ethics and corporate social responsibility.
Management^Doctoral Seminar in Management Doctoral Seminar in Management MGMT 599 Doctoral Seminar in Management (1, max. 12)Advanced topics in the fields of human resources management and organizational behavior. May be used by visiting faculty members to present topics of interest to students.
Finance^Business Finance Business Finance FIN 350 Business Finance (4)Evaluating and funding projects within the firm. Time value of money, inflation, capital budgeting; risk and return in the financial markets, stocks, bonds, portfolios and diversifiable risk, market efficiency and the balance between debt and equity to fund the firm.
Finance^Banking and the Financial System Banking and the Financial System FIN 423 Banking and the Financial System (4)Role of banks and nonbank financial institutions in the financial system; asset choices of banks and nonbank financial institutions; problems in the management of financial institutions with emphasis on commercial banks.
Finance^Introduction to Real Estate Finance and Investment Introduction to Real Estate Finance and Investment FIN 425 Introduction to Real Estate Finance and Investment (4) T. SESLENIntroduction to valuing, financing, and investing in real estate with emphasis on those topics that distinguish real estate from other investments, including valuation techniques, lease structures, loan options, equity partnerships, risk management, and taxation.
Finance^International Financial Management International Financial Management FIN 428 International Financial Management (4)Analysis of financial problems facing businesses engaged in international activities. Financing foreign investment, financial control of foreign operations, and working capital management including foreign exchange positions using cases and readings.
Finance^Introduction to Real Estate Capital Markets Introduction to Real Estate Capital Markets FIN 435 Introduction to Real Estate Capital Markets (4) T. SESLENExamines who the real estate capital providers are, how that capital is priced, and why the markets operate as they do. Provides a toolbox for sound decision-making, either as an investor seeking funding or as a note-holder in the secondary market.
Finance^Problems in Corporate Finance Problems in Corporate Finance FIN 450 Problems in Corporate Finance (4)Case problems in corporate financial management. Includes cases on management of current assets, obtaining short-term loans, raising long-term capital, capital budgeting, and dividend policy. The management point of view is stressed.
Finance^Financial Theory and Analysis Financial Theory and Analysis FIN 453 Financial Theory and Analysis (4)Business financial strategic planning. Topics include business valuation and financing, performance evaluation, risk analysis, capital budgeting, and inflation and taxes. Emphasizes tools with real-world applications while incorporating modern finance concepts.
Finance^Business Valuation, Investment, and Financing Business Valuation, Investment, and Financing FIN 454 Business Valuation, Investment, and Financing (4)Key issues in financial management using both analytical and case study illustrations. Valuation of public and private companies; cost of capital estimation; investment complications, such as taxes, inflation, risk, project interdependencies, and financing-investment interactions; leasing; mergers; spin-offs and carve-outs.
Finance^Entrepreneurial Finance Entrepreneurial Finance FIN 457 Entrepreneurial Finance (4)Explores financial issues that face entrepreneurs, including the stages of financing, business cash flow models, and strategic positioning of the early-stage company. Examines the role of business angels, venture capital funds, institutional investors, strategic alliances, licensing agreements, and exit strategies.
Finance^Venture Investing Venture Investing FIN 459 Venture Investing (4)Analyzes and makes recommendations on investment opportunities through learning the fundamentals of venture investing and performing due diligence on real companies. Explores the venture investing process from the entrepreneur's and the investor's point of view. Students present their recommendations to the Investment Committee of the W Fund. Offered: jointly with ENTRE 459.
Finance^Investments Investments FIN 460 Investments (4)Introduction to the nature, problems, and process of evaluating particular securities and portfolio construction and administration. Special attention is directed to the risk and rate-of-return aspects of particular securities portfolios, and total wealth.
Finance^Financial Futures and Options Markets Financial Futures and Options Markets FIN 461 Financial Futures and Options Markets (4)Introduction to financial futures and options markets. Institutional aspects and social functions of these markets, pricing of options and futures, and risk shifting by hedging.
Finance^Management of Financial Risk Management of Financial Risk FIN 462 Management of Financial Risk (4)Modern tools for managing financial risk. Fixed income securities and interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk, and insurance. Emphasis on use of futures, forwards swaps, and option contracts.
Finance^Alternative Investments: Hedge Funds and Private Equity Alternative Investments: Hedge Funds and Private Equity FIN 466 Alternative Investments: Hedge Funds and Private Equity (4) BrogaardExamination of the market for alternative investments including the investment strategies employed by hedge funds and private equity firms, the risk-return tradeoffs of those strategies, and the legal and economic environments in which alternative investment firms operate.
Finance^Special Topics in Finance Special Topics in Finance FIN 490 Special Topics in Finance (1-6, max. 6)Study and research on topics of current concern to faculty and students. Only offered when allowed by faculty availability and sufficient student interest. Seminar content to be announced in advance of scheduled offerings.
Finance^Finance Internship Finance Internship FIN 495 Finance Internship (1-4, max. 8)Internship with a private firm, nonprofit organization or government agency, where work experience involves substantial application of finance concepts learned in classroom.
Finance^Business Finance Business Finance FIN 502 Business Finance (4)Financial management of the firm, including capital budgets, working capital analysis, and financing policy.
Finance^International Financial Management International Financial Management FIN 528 International Financial Management (4)Analysis of financial problems facing businesses engaged in international activities: financing foreign investment, financial control of foreign operations, and working capital management including foreign exchange positions using cases and readings.
Finance^Financial Management of Banks Financial Management of Banks FIN 530 Financial Management of Banks (4)Analysis of problems in the financial management of commercial banks and other financial institutions. Loan and investment policies, liability management, capital policies, and other selected issues are discussed.
Finance^Advanced Business Finance Advanced Business Finance FIN 550 Advanced Business Finance (4)Systematic coverage of key theoretical issues in financial management. Application of quantitative analysis to financial problems of the firm that are important in practice, including issues related to financing and investment.
Finance^Problems in Business Finance Problems in Business Finance FIN 551 Problems in Business Finance (4)Uses case studies to examine a broad range of financial management topics, including forecasting financial statements, use of bank credit, working capital management, public and private securities issues, capital budgeting, and business valuation. Credit allowed for only one of FIN 551 and FIN 552.
Finance^Problems in Corporate Planning and Financing Problems in Corporate Planning and Financing FIN 552 Problems in Corporate Planning and Financing (4)Uses case studies to examine business financing. Topics include financial statement analysis, financial planning and forecasting, banking relationships, and financing sources, including the use of derivative securities, venture capital, and private equity. Credit allowed for only one of FIN 551 and FIN 552.
Finance^Problems in Capital Investment Planning Problems in Capital Investment Planning FIN 553 Problems in Capital Investment Planning (4)Case discussions used to examine corporate resource allocation decisions. Topics include capital budgeting techniques, estimation of capital costs, capital budgeting systems, strategic investment decisions, and financial restructurings.
Finance^Financing Decisions, Payout Policy, and Corporate Control Financing Decisions, Payout Policy, and Corporate Control FIN 555 Financing Decisions, Payout Policy, and Corporate Control (4)Analysis of business financing methods, payout policy, management compensation, ownership structure, and the distribution of control rights. Covers the major issues critical to structuring contracts within the corporation.
Finance^Business Valuation and Investment Analysis Business Valuation and Investment Analysis FIN 556 Business Valuation and Investment Analysis (4)Valuation of business enterprises, evaluation of financial performance, analysis of complex investment opportunities, business taxation, leasing, and business acquisitions. Emphasis on complications encountered in practice.
Finance^Entrepreneurial Finance Entrepreneurial Finance FIN 557 Entrepreneurial Finance (4)Analyzes the unique financial issues facing entrepreneurial firms. Topics include assessing financial performance, financial forecasting and planning, financial management of rapidly growing businesses, start-up ventures, valuation, sources of financing, venture capital, initial public offerings, and the decision to harvest.
Finance^Mergers and Acquisitions Mergers and Acquisitions FIN 558 Mergers and Acquisitions (4)Advanced finance topics focusing on providing the necessary training to value, structure, and close acquisitions. Additional topics include antitrust issues, the legal environment governing mergers, and antitakeover defense.
Finance^Investments Investments FIN 560 Investments (4)Introduction to the nature, problems, and process of evaluating particular securities and portfolio construction and administration. Special attention is directed to the risk and rate of return aspects of particular securities, securities portfolios, and total wealth.
Finance^Financial Futures and Options Markets Financial Futures and Options Markets FIN 561 Financial Futures and Options Markets (4)Overview of futures markets and options markets. Analysis of pricing of futures contracts and options; comparison of futures, forward, and options contracts; risk management with hedging; alternative investment strategies; and review of empirical evidence.
Finance^Management of Financial Risk Management of Financial Risk FIN 562 Management of Financial Risk (4)Modern tools for managing financial risk. Fixed income securities and interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk, and insurance. Emphasis on use of futures, forwards, swaps, and option contracts.
Finance^Real Options Real Options FIN 563 Real Options (2)Short overview of option pricing theory, followed by applications of option analysis in evaluating complex investment projects by business firms.
Finance^Alternative Investments: Hedge Funds and Private Equity Alternative Investments: Hedge Funds and Private Equity FIN 566 Alternative Investments: Hedge Funds and Private Equity (4) BrogaardExamination of the market for alternative investments including the investment strategies employed by hedge funds and private equity firms, the risk-return tradeoffs of those strategies, and the legal and economic environments in which alternative investment firms operate.
Finance^Special Topics in Finance Special Topics in Finance FIN 579 Special Topics in Finance (2/4, max. 12)Finance topics of current concern to faculty and students. Offered only when faculty are available and sufficient student interest exists. Seminar content announced in advance of scheduled offerings.
Finance^Doctoral Seminar in Financial Economics Doctoral Seminar in Financial Economics FIN 580 Doctoral Seminar in Financial Economics (4)Study of the financing of the corporation, including recent theoretical and institutional developments. Extensive reading and discussion in designated areas covering problems relating to financial management and to the social and economic implications of the financial process.
Finance^Doctoral Seminar in Capital Market Theory Doctoral Seminar in Capital Market Theory FIN 590 Doctoral Seminar in Capital Market Theory (4)Decision making under uncertainty, information and capital market efficiency, portfolio theory, capital asset pricing model, arbitrage pricing model, and options pricing model.
Finance^Doctoral Seminar in Corporate Finance Doctoral Seminar in Corporate Finance FIN 591 Doctoral Seminar in Corporate Finance (4)Principles of intertemporal choice, alternative valuation models, theory of investment under uncertainty, impact of dividend and financing decisions on firm valuation in perfect and imperfect markets, and theory of firm organization and agency costs.
Finance^Doctoral Seminar in Financial Research Doctoral Seminar in Financial Research FIN 592 Doctoral Seminar in Financial Research (4)Empirical research in finance with emphasis on methodology and scientific method. Empirical research in market efficiency, capital asset pricing model, options pricing model, and impact of firm's dividend and financing decisions on firm value.
Finance^Doctoral Seminar in Finance Doctoral Seminar in Finance FIN 599 Doctoral Seminar in Finance (1, max. 12)Study and research in advanced topics of finance. Generally concerned with unpublished areas of research, conducted by visiting professors and departmental faculty.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Bioengineering Problem Solving Introduction to Bioengineering Problem Solving BIOEN 215 Introduction to Bioengineering Problem Solving (3) D. HENDRICKS, A. TAYLORIntroduces bioengineering through a problem solving approach. Topics include: creative problem solving techniques, self-directed inquiry, engineering ethics, social constraints, and engineering design process.
Bio Engineering^Guided Independent Studies on Transformative Science Guided Independent Studies on Transformative Science BIOEN 290 Guided Independent Studies on Transformative Science (4) NW G. POLLACKIntensive laboratory experience mixed with lectures, readings, and discussions aimed at achieving deep understanding of scientific approach, particularly the nature of paradigm shifts, role of governmental support and management of science, power of orthodoxy, role of challenger, and fate of unpopular scientific views. Offered: W.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Bioengineering Introduction to Bioengineering BIOEN 299 Introduction to Bioengineering (1) G. POLLACKLectures on the various aspects of bioengineering; orientation in bioengineering studies and practice. Offered: ASp.
Bio Engineering^Biochemical Molecular Engineering Biochemical Molecular Engineering BIOEN 315 Biochemical Molecular Engineering (3) D. RATNERIntroduces the requisite organic, physical, and biochemistry for incoming bioengineers to understand biological systems at the molecular level.
Bio Engineering^Biomedical Signals and Sensors Biomedical Signals and Sensors BIOEN 316 Biomedical Signals and Sensors (4) C. NEILSIntroduces the sources, detection, and processing of signals in medical instrumentation. Includes analog and digital signal processing in the time and frequency domains. Emphasizes component strengths and limitations, to develop systems that improve safety, accuracy, and reliability.
Bio Engineering^Biomedical Signals and Sensors Laboratory Biomedical Signals and Sensors Laboratory BIOEN 317 Biomedical Signals and Sensors Laboratory (2) F. CURRAUses computational and experimental projects covering methods to acquire, process, and analyze signals from physiological and biochemical origins. Co-requisite: BIOEN 315 and BIOEN 316. Offered: Sp.
Bio Engineering^Biotransport I Biotransport I BIOEN 325 Biotransport I (3) T. LEWISIntroduces momentum and heat transport in medical and biological systems. Examines how differential and control-volume analyses produce ordinary and partial differential equations; develops analytical and computational solution methods.
Bio Engineering^Solid and Gel Mechanics Solid and Gel Mechanics BIOEN 326 Solid and Gel Mechanics (3) W. THOMASIntroduces solid mechanics and interactions of biological structures and medical materials. Emphasizes the relationships between composition, structure, properties, and performance of metals and ceramics, synthetic and natural macromolecules, cells, tissues, and self assembling systems.
Bio Engineering^Fluids and Materials Laboratory Fluids and Materials Laboratory BIOEN 327 Fluids and Materials Laboratory (2) C. NEILSPractical exploration of the behavior of fluids and soft materials that occur in biological systems and biomedical devices; and the interaction between cells and their environment. Includes methods of measurement, analysis, and design. Co-requisite: BIOEN 325 and BIOEN 326. Offered: A.
Bio Engineering^Biotransport II Biotransport II BIOEN 335 Biotransport II (3) J. BRYERSStudies the principles of combined mass transport in homogeneous and heterogeneous reaction systems as applied to biological processes. Introduces chemical and biochemical reaction kinetics, methods of evaluating kinetic parameters for reaction rate data, and prediction of the performance of biological and biochemical processes.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Systems and Control Bioengineering Systems and Control BIOEN 336 Bioengineering Systems and Control (3) H. SAUROReviews linear and nonlinear systems analysis and control system design and biological and medical applications.
Bio Engineering^Mass Transport and Systems Laboratory Mass Transport and Systems Laboratory BIOEN 337 Mass Transport and Systems Laboratory (2) A. TAYLORUses computational and experimental laboratory exercises to demonstrate time- and space-dependent linear and nonlinear systems with specific emphasis on bioengineering application.
Bio Engineering^Failure Analysis and Human Physiology Failure Analysis and Human Physiology BIOEN 345 Failure Analysis and Human Physiology (4) S. PUN, M. REGNIER, Y. ZHENGApplies engineering analysis to understand human physiology of the engineering of solutions to medical and biological problems. Includes laboratory.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Capstone Principles Bioengineering Capstone Principles BIOEN 401 Bioengineering Capstone Principles (3) K. WOODROWTeaches design principles in bioengineering and guides the development of design and research-based senior capstone projects.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Capstone Research and Design Bioengineering Capstone Research and Design BIOEN 402 Bioengineering Capstone Research and Design ([2-6]-, max. 10)Independent senior design project.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Capstone Research Bioengineering Capstone Research BIOEN 403 Bioengineering Capstone Research (2-, max. 4)Independent senior research project.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Team Design I Bioengineering Team Design I BIOEN 404 Bioengineering Team Design I (3) C. NEILSFirst course in team design project course sequence.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Team Design II Bioengineering Team Design II BIOEN 405 Bioengineering Team Design II (3) A. TAYLORSecond course in team design project course sequence.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Honors Seminar Bioengineering Honors Seminar BIOEN 410 Bioengineering Honors Seminar (1) D. HENDRICKSService-learning for departmental honors students. Offered: A.
Bio Engineering^Medical Imaging Medical Imaging BIOEN 420 Medical Imaging (4) C. YUANVarious medical imaging modalities (x-rays, CT, MRI, ultrasound, PET, SPECT optical imaging, etc.) and their applications in medicine and biology. Extends basic concepts of signal processing (BIOEN 303) to the two and three dimensions relevant to imaging physics, image reconstruction, image processing, and visualization.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Synthetic Biology Introduction to Synthetic Biology BIOEN 423 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3)Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology BIOEN 424 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3)Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology.
Bio Engineering^Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology BIOEN 425 Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology (4)Designs and builds transgenic bacterial using promoters and genes taken from a variety of organisms. Uses construction techniques including recombination, gene synthesis, and gene extraction. Evaluates designs using sequencing, fluorescence assays, enzyme activity assays, and single cell studies using time-lapse microscopy.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Biomechanics Introduction to Biomechanics BIOEN 440 Introduction to Biomechanics (4) J. SANDERSPresents the mechanical behavior of tissues in the body and the application to design of prostheses. Tissues studies include bone, skin, fascia, ligaments, tendons, heart valves, and blood vessels. Discussion of the structure of these tissues and their mechanical response to different loading configurations. An important part of the class is a final project. Offered: jointly with M E 445; Sp.
Bio Engineering^BioMEMS BioMEMS BIOEN 455 BioMEMS (4) A. FOLCHIntroduction to BioMEMS. State-of-the-art techniques in patterning biomolecules, machining three-dimensional microstructures and building microfluidic devices. Various biomedical problems that can be addressed with microfabrication technology and the engineering challenges associated with it. Biweekly labs.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Molecular Bioengineering Advanced Molecular Bioengineering BIOEN 457 Advanced Molecular Bioengineering (4) P. STAYTONFundamentals of molecular recognition: thermodynamics, forces, kinetics. Manipulation of recognition processes for current molecular bioengineering research and development. Fundamental physical chemistry of molecular recognition in the context of biomedicine. Therapeutics based on cells.
Bio Engineering^Biochemical Engineering Biochemical Engineering BIOEN 467 Biochemical Engineering (3) F. BANEYXApplication of basic chemical engineering principles to biochemical and biological process industries such as fermentation, enzyme technology, and biological waste treatment. Rapid overview of relevant microbiology, biochemistry, and molecular genetics. Design and analysis of biological reactors and product recovery operations.
Bio Engineering^Computational Bioengineering Computational Bioengineering BIOEN 485 Computational Bioengineering (4) W. THOMASIntroduction to computational and mathematical analysis of biological systems, including control, stochastic, and transport systems. Lectures and laboratory sessions emphasize biochemical systems, but also include electrical, mechanical, and fluidic systems.
Bio Engineering^Tissue Engineering Tissue Engineering BIOEN 486 Tissue Engineering (3) D. KIMTissue structure and function, scaffold design, applications to specialized tissues and organs.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering and Nanotechnology Bioengineering and Nanotechnology BIOEN 487 Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (4) X. GAOExplores basic concepts of nanoscience and the current literature, focusing on practical applications for nanotechnology in biology and medicine.
Bio Engineering^Computational Protein Design Computational Protein Design BIOEN 488 Computational Protein Design (4) V. DAGGETTExplores methods in protein engineering, emphasizing biomedical and biotechnological applications. Includes molecular visualization, homology modeling, molecular dynamics, computational protein design, and evaluation of designs. Introduces current research in subject area. Students learn to use and apply computational tools to investigate design problems.
Bio Engineering^Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications BIOEN 490 Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications (3)Combined application of principles of physical chemistry and biochemistry, materials engineering, to biomedical problems and products. Applications include implants and medical devices, drug delivery systems, cell culture processes, diagnostics, and bioseparations. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 490; A.
Bio Engineering^Controlled-Release Systems Controlled-Release Systems BIOEN 491 Controlled-Release Systems (3) S. PUNMechanisms for controlled release of active agents and the development of useful drug delivery systems for this purpose. Release mechanisms considered include diffusive, convective, and erosive driving forces. Delivery routes include topical, oral, and in vivo. Some special case studies covered in detail. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 491; W.
Bio Engineering^Surface Analysis Surface Analysis BIOEN 492 Surface Analysis (3) B. RATNERUnderstanding of solid surfaces for research and development in microelectronics, catalysis, adhesion, biomaterials, science wear, and corrosion science. Newer methods available to study surfaces of materials. Electron emission spectroscopies (ESCA, Auger): ion scattering, ion spectroscopic, photon spectroscopic, and thermodynamic methods. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 458; Sp.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Surface Analysis Advanced Surface Analysis BIOEN 493 Advanced Surface Analysis (3) D. CASTNERCovers the latest advanced in surface analysis instrumentation and methodology, including advanced methods of biorecognition AFM, surface Plasmon resonance, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sum frequency generation spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and multivariate analysis.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Drug Delivery Advanced Drug Delivery BIOEN 494 Advanced Drug Delivery (3) S. PUNProvides students with an understanding of the current state of the art for advanced drug delivery. Covers the major families of biologic drugs, major challenges associated with their delivery and specific disease applications.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Education Outreach Bioengineering Education Outreach BIOEN 497 Bioengineering Education Outreach (1-2, max. 6)Work with K-12 schools or community organizations. Current science education research and instructional techniques. May involve presentations or instruction in hands-on activities.
Bio Engineering^Special Topics Special Topics BIOEN 498 Special Topics (1-6, max. 15)Topics of current interest in the field, offered as lectures, conferences, or laboratory. Offered: AWSpS.
Bio Engineering^Special Projects Special Projects BIOEN 499 Special Projects (1-6, max. 24)Individual undergraduate bioengineering projects (research or independent study) under the supervision of an instructor. Offered: AWSpS.
Bio Engineering^Molecular Bioengineering Molecular Bioengineering BIOEN 501 Molecular Bioengineering (4)Examines advanced topics in molecular diffusion, reaction kinetics, and convective transport modeling as applied to biological systems. Includes mathematical analysis and numerical simulation techniques applied to: Non-Fickian diffusion, rotational versus translational diffusion, immobilized enzyme kinetics, drug release, and gene delivery. Offered: A.
Bio Engineering^Cellular Bioengineering Cellular Bioengineering BIOEN 502 Cellular Bioengineering (4)Covers basic principles of cell biology (including cell structure, function, and signaling), recombinant RNA/DNA technology, and specific examples of cellular bioengineering applications including gene delivery, RNA silencing, and tissue engineering.
Bio Engineering^Systems Bioengineering Systems Bioengineering BIOEN 503 Systems Bioengineering (4)Explores whole-body or organ physiology topics from an engineering perspective. Uses various model systems to elucidate engineering principles such as feedback control and homeostatic regulation. Includes real-world examples, computer modeling, and research design approaches.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Technology Commercialization Introduction to Technology Commercialization BIOEN 504 Introduction to Technology Commercialization (4) M. O'DONNELL, B. RATNERExplores essential business, legal, engineering, and other skills necessary to take new technology from research to market. Covers intellectual property, market analysis, licensing, funding mechanisms such as venture capital, and product marketing.
Bio Engineering^Biomedical Entrepreneurship Biomedical Entrepreneurship BIOEN 505 Biomedical Entrepreneurship (4)Explores essential business, legal, engineering, and other skills necessary to take new technology from research to market. Covers intellectual property, market analysis, licensing, funding mechanisms such as venture capital, and product marketing; introduces strategic planning, management of commercialization effort.
Bio Engineering^Applying Technology Commercialization Applying Technology Commercialization BIOEN 506 Applying Technology Commercialization (1)Focuses knowledge of entrepreneurship within the spaces of medical devices, hardware/software, and energy, into a practical description of a potential start-up company. Corequisite: ENTRE 540.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Departmental Seminar Bioengineering Departmental Seminar BIOEN 509 Bioengineering Departmental Seminar (1, max. 16)Research review and discussions centered on demonstrating approaches and solving scientific problems. Seminar lectures led by faculty and visiting faculty in Bioengineering and related disciplines. Offered: WSp.
Bio Engineering^Biomaterials Seminar Biomaterials Seminar BIOEN 511 Biomaterials Seminar (1, max. 18) D. CASTNER, L. GAMBLEPresentation of student research results.
Bio Engineering^Current Topics in Cardiac Physiology Current Topics in Cardiac Physiology BIOEN 513 Current Topics in Cardiac Physiology (1, max. 3) M. REGNIERCurrent research in cardiac physiology. Student presentation and discussions of current research methodologies.
Bio Engineering^Medical Imaging Seminar Medical Imaging Seminar BIOEN 516 Medical Imaging Seminar (1)Weekly seminars, presented by UW faculty members, researchers and graduate students from UW, other academic institutions, and industry, on image computing and medical imaging. Topics include digital video, image processing, computer graphics, video/image compression, image analysis, algorithms and systems, pattern recognition, multimedia computer architectures, and other applications.
Bio Engineering^Nanotechnology Seminar Nanotechnology Seminar BIOEN 518 Nanotechnology Seminar (1, max. 18)Emphasizes frontier research in nanoscience and nanotechnology and on intellectual interactions within the nanotechnology community. Presented by experts in the field, with most being from other institutions.
Bio Engineering^Musculoskeletal Biomechanics Musculoskeletal Biomechanics BIOEN 520 Musculoskeletal Biomechanics (4) R. CHINGEngineering principles and mechanics applied to the musculoskeletal system including structure-function property relationships of musculoskeletal tissues, the biomechanics of joint systems, and applications of biomechanics in industry and research. Offered: jointly with M E 527; W.
Bio Engineering^Biomechanics of Soft Tissue Biomechanics of Soft Tissue BIOEN 522 Biomechanics of Soft Tissue (3) J. SANDERSApplies soft tissue biomechanics to medical research. Develops specific biomechanical questions and experiments to address those aims or hypotheses.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Synthetic Biology Introduction to Synthetic Biology BIOEN 523 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3)Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology BIOEN 524 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3)Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Professional Series I: Literature Analysis Bioengineering Professional Series I: Literature Analysis BIOEN 530 Bioengineering Professional Series I: Literature Analysis (2) NW V. DAGGETTSkills in scientific literature analysis developed through topics in bioengineering. Offered: A.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Professional Series II: Proposal Writing Bioengineering Professional Series II: Proposal Writing BIOEN 531 Bioengineering Professional Series II: Proposal Writing (2) M. SCATENACovers grant and fellowship proposal writing. Offered: W.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Professional Series III: Professional Skills Development Bioengineering Professional Series III: Professional Skills Development BIOEN 532 Bioengineering Professional Series III: Professional Skills Development (1) NW C. GIACHELLIKey areas of professional development related to the bioengineering field, including oral communication, management, networking, and interviewing. Offered: Sp.
Bio Engineering^Microfabrication and Microfluidics Microfabrication and Microfluidics BIOEN 552 Microfabrication and Microfluidics (3) A. FOLCH, P. YAGERStudies the use of 2- and 3-dimensional structures in research and biomaterials, cells, and complex liquids. Focuses on micropatterning of surfaces and microfluidic chemical analytical systems. Co-requisite: BIOEN 553.
Bio Engineering^Microfabrication and Microfluidics Laboratory Microfabrication and Microfluidics Laboratory BIOEN 553 Microfabrication and Microfluidics Laboratory (2) A. FOLCH, P. YAGERStudies the creation of 2- and 3-dimensional structures for use in research with biomaterials, cells, and complex liquids. Each student will fabricate at least one PDMS device and demonstrate its function. Co-requisite: BIOEN 552.
Bio Engineering^Water, Nature, and Biological Function Water, Nature, and Biological Function BIOEN 555 Water, Nature, and Biological Function (3) G. POLLACKExplores emerging concepts of water at interfaces as a new and simpler way to understand many features of chemistry, physics, and biology. Considers new understanding in cell function, energy transduction, solar energy, flow, transport, weather, green science, and other basics of nature and engineering. Offered: Sp.
Bio Engineering^Biosensors and Biomedical Sensing Biosensors and Biomedical Sensing BIOEN 573 Biosensors and Biomedical Sensing (3) P. YAGERIn-depth overview of the principal types of biosensors. Topics include: how biological molecules are used in sensing, how the sensors operate, how different sensors compare, under what circumstances sensors can be useful, and the applicability of sensors to biomedical sensing.
Bio Engineering^Laboratory Techniques in Protein Engineering Laboratory Techniques in Protein Engineering BIOEN 576 Laboratory Techniques in Protein Engineering (4)Practical introduction to fundamentals of recombinant DNA technology and protein engineering. Gene design, bacterial molecular biology, genetic engineering strategy. Laboratory project focused on making site-directed protein mutations. Techniques include the Polymerase Chain Reaction, DNA sequencing, DNA cutting/splicing, protein expression.
Bio Engineering^Cell and Protein Reaction with Foreign Materials Cell and Protein Reaction with Foreign Materials BIOEN 577 Cell and Protein Reaction with Foreign Materials (3) T. HORBETTStudy of ways in which cell and protein interactions with foreign materials affect the biocompatibility of biomaterials. Description of phenomenology and mechanisms of protein adsorption, mammalian cell adhesion, and cell receptor biology and of methods used to study these phenomena. Surface properties of materials discussed in context of the course.
Bio Engineering^Biomembranes Biomembranes BIOEN 578 Biomembranes (3) P. YAGERDevelops an understanding of the molecular principles that underlie the self-assembly of surfactants into natural and model membranes; in particular, on the relationship between the chemical structure of lipid molecules and the three-dimensional aggregates that they form in water.
Bio Engineering^Host Response to Biomaterials Host Response to Biomaterials BIOEN 579 Host Response to Biomaterials (3) C. GIACHELLIBasic cell and molecular biology of the pathologies associated with biomaterial implantation that limit bioprosthetic use, including hemostasis, infection, acute and chronic inflammation, wound healing and fibrosis, and structural alterations. Major methods for histological analysis of retrieved implants.
Bio Engineering^Computational Bioengineering Computational Bioengineering BIOEN 585 Computational Bioengineering (4) W. THOMASIntroduction to computational and mathematical analysis of biological systems, including control, stochastic, and transport systems. Lectures and laboratory sessions emphasize biochemical systems, but also include electrical, mechanical, and fluidic systems.
Bio Engineering^Tissue Engineering Tissue Engineering BIOEN 586 Tissue Engineering (3) D. KIMTissue structure and function, scaffold design, applications to specialized tissues and organs. Offered: A.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering and Nanotechnology Bioengineering and Nanotechnology BIOEN 587 Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (4) GaoExplores basic concepts of nanoscience and the current literature, focusing on practical applications for nanotechnology in biology and medicine.
Bio Engineering^Computational Protein Design Computational Protein Design BIOEN 588 Computational Protein Design (4) V. DAGGETTExplores methods in protein engineering, emphasizing biomedical and biotechnological applications. Includes molecular visualization, homology modeling, molecular dynamics, computational protein design, and evaluation of designs. Introduces current research in subject area. Students learn to use and apply computational tools to investigate design problems.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Topics in Biomaterials Advanced Topics in Biomaterials BIOEN 590 Advanced Topics in Biomaterials (3)Major, controversial issues in application of synthetic materials to medical problems. Blood compatibility, bioadhesion, intraocular lenses, contact lenses, polyurethanes, biodegradation, protein adsorption, corrosion, bone fixation, new materials, artificial heart, medical device regulation.
Bio Engineering^Controlled Release Systems Controlled Release Systems BIOEN 591 Controlled Release Systems (3) S. PUNProvides students with an understanding of the current state of the art for advanced drug delivery. Covers the major families of biologic drugs, major challenges associated with their delivery and specific disease applications. Offered: W.
Bio Engineering^Surface Analysis Surface Analysis BIOEN 592 Surface Analysis (3) B. RATNERUnderstanding of solid surfaces for research and development in microelectronics, catalysis, adhesion, biomaterials science, wear and corrosion science. Newer methods available to study surfaces of materials. Electron emission spectroscopies (ESCA, Auger); ion scattering, ion spectroscopic, photon spectroscopic, and thermodynamic methods. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 558.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Surface Analysis Advanced Surface Analysis BIOEN 593 Advanced Surface Analysis (3) D. CASTNERCovers the latest advanced in surface analysis instrumentation and methodology, including advanced methods of biorecognition AFM, surface Plasmon resonance, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sum frequency generation spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and multivariate analysis.
Bio Engineering^Advanced Drug Delivery Advanced Drug Delivery BIOEN 594 Advanced Drug Delivery (3) S. PUNProvides students with an understanding of the current state of the art for advanced drug delivery. Covers the major families of biologic drugs, major challenges associated with their delivery and specific disease applications. Offered: Sp.
Bio Engineering^Research Rotation Research Rotation BIOEN 598 Research Rotation (1-10, max. 30)Research rotation in the laboratories of core or adjunct faculty in the Department of Bioengineering. Offered: AWSpS.
Bio Engineering^Special Topics in Bioengineering Special Topics in Bioengineering BIOEN 599 Special Topics in Bioengineering (1-6, max. 30)Offered at a graduate level periodically by faculty members within the Department of Bioengineering; concerns areas of research activities with current and topical interest to bioengineers.
Bio Engineering^Internship Internship BIOEN 601 Internship (1-10, max. 10)Bioengineering graduate internship program. Requires written report.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Visualization and Computer-Aided Design M Introduction to Visualization and Computer-Aided Design M E 123 Introduction to Visualization and Computer-Aided Design (4) VLPA/NW AdeeMethods of depicting three-dimensional objects and communicating design information. Development of three-dimensional skills through freehand sketching and computer-aided design using parametric solid modeling. Offered: AWSpS.
Mechanical Engineering^M Visualization and Computer-Aided Design Laboratory M Visualization and Computer-Aided Design Laboratory M E 124 Visualization and Computer-Aided Design Laboratory (2) VLPA/NW AdeeMethods of depicting three-dimensional objects and communicating design information. Development of three-dimensional visualization skills through computer-aided design using parametric solid modeling. Offered: AWSpS.
Mechanical Engineering^M Kinematics and Dynamics M Kinematics and Dynamics M E 230 Kinematics and Dynamics (4) NW FabienKinematics of particles, systems of particles, and rigid bodies; moving reference frames; kinetics of particles, systems of particles, and rigid bodies; equilibrium, energy, linear momentum, angular momentum.
Mechanical Engineering^M Engineering Thermodynamics M Engineering Thermodynamics M E 323 Engineering Thermodynamics (5) KramlichEngineering thermodynamics, including thermodynamic concepts and properties, the first and second laws of thermodynamics, energy conversion, refrigeration, humidification, and combustion. Engineering design applications.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Heat Transfer M Introduction to Heat Transfer M E 331 Introduction to Heat Transfer (4) EmeryStudy of heat transfer by conduction, radiation, and convection; elementary heat-exchanger design.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Fluid Mechanics M Introduction to Fluid Mechanics M E 333 Introduction to Fluid Mechanics (5) RileyIntroduction to the basic fluid laws and their application. Conservation equations, dynamic similarity, potential flow, boundary-layer concepts, effects of friction, compressible flow, fluid machinery, measurement techniques.
Mechanical Engineering^M Energy and Environment M Energy and Environment M E 341 Energy and Environment (3) NWEnergy use. Fossil energy conversion. Oil, gas, coal resources. Air impacts. Nuclear energy principles, reactors, fuel cycle.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanics of Materials Laboratory M Mechanics of Materials Laboratory M E 354 Mechanics of Materials Laboratory (5) TuttleProperties and behavior of engineering materials including stress-strain relations, strength, deformation mechanisms, strength, deformation, fracture, creep, and cyclic fatigue. Introduces experimental techniques common to structural engineering, interpretation of experimental data, comparison of measurements to numerical/analytical predictions, and formal, engineering report writing. Lecture and laboratory.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Manufacturing Processes M Introduction to Manufacturing Processes M E 355 Introduction to Manufacturing Processes (4) RamuluStudy of manufacturing processes, including interrelationships between the properties of the material, the manufacturing process, and the design of components. Interpretation of experimental data, comparison of measurements to numerical/analytical predictions, and formal, engineering report writing.
Mechanical Engineering^M Machine Design Analysis M Machine Design Analysis M E 356 Machine Design Analysis (4) ChungAnalysis, design, and selection of mechanical and electromechanical subsystems and elements, such as gears, linkages, cams, motors, and bearings.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to System Dynamics M Introduction to System Dynamics M E 373 Introduction to System Dynamics (5) GarbiniMathematical modeling, analysis, and design of physical dynamic systems involving energy storage and transfer by lumped-parameter linear elements. Time-domain response by analytical methods and numeric simulation. Laboratory experiments.
Mechanical Engineering^M Systems Dynamic Analysis and Design M Systems Dynamic Analysis and Design M E 374 Systems Dynamic Analysis and Design (5) GarbiniExtension of M E 373. Frequency response analysis, generalized impedance concepts and applications, Fourier series analysis and Laplace transform techniques. Modeling and analysis of electromechanical actuators and rotating machinery. Laboratory experiments and design projects.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Mechanical Design M Introduction to Mechanical Design M E 395 Introduction to Mechanical Design (4) CooperDesign process and methodology; decision making; optimization techniques; project planning; engineering economics; probabilistic and statistical aspects of mechanical design; ethical and legal issues.
Mechanical Engineering^M Corrosion and Surface Treatment of Materials M Corrosion and Surface Treatment of Materials M E 406 Corrosion and Surface Treatment of Materials (3) SandwithCorrosion fundamentals and forms (galvanic, crevice, pitting, stress corrosion, erosion, hydrogen, and leaching). Principles of design, materials selection, cathodic protection and surface treatments (coatings, carburizing, nitriding, and plating) applied to reduce corrosion. Failure analysis applied to case studies.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Numerical Control and Computer-Aided Manufacturing M Introduction to Numerical Control and Computer-Aided Manufacturing M E 409 Introduction to Numerical Control and Computer-Aided Manufacturing (3) RamuluControl system fundamentals, numerical control (NC) machine control systems, and the design aspect of NC machine tools, programming methods of NC machines, computer-aided manufacturing, CNC, DNC, and process optimization.
Mechanical Engineering^M Nanodevices: Design and Manufacture M Nanodevices: Design and Manufacture M E 410 Nanodevices: Design and Manufacture (3) ChungExamines design, fabrication, and manufacture of nano devices with state-of-the-art nanotechnology. Covers classification and selection of nanoscale materials and manufacturing methods: Includes nanodevice design projects. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Biological Frameworks for Engineers M Biological Frameworks for Engineers M E 411 Biological Frameworks for Engineers (3) SniadeckiIntroduces the fundamentals of biology for an engineer. Covers mechanisms and biomechanics of DNA, proteins, cells, connective tissue, musculoskeletal tissue, and cardiovascular tissue, integration principles of living systems, structure-function relationships, and techniques to study biology and medicine, and tissue engineering. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Engineering Innovation in Medicine M Engineering Innovation in Medicine M E 414 Engineering Innovation in Medicine (3) J. POSNER, P. REINHALLIntroduces the role of innovation and engineering in the design of medical devices and healthcare technologies, applicable both to medical practice and healthcare-focused engineering. Discusses medical practice, clinical needs finding, FDA regulation, insurance reimbursement, intellectual property, and the medical device design process. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Sustainability and Design for Environment M Sustainability and Design for Environment M E 415 Sustainability and Design for Environment (3) CooperAnalysis and design of technology systems within the context of the environment, economy, and society. Applies the concepts of resource conservation, pollution prevention, life cycle assessment, and extended product responsibility. Examines the practice, opportunities, and role of engineering, management, and public policy. Offered: jointly with CEE 495/ENVIR 415.
Mechanical Engineering^M HVAC Engineering M HVAC Engineering M E 425 HVAC Engineering (4) EmeryHeating, ventilating, and air conditioning of built environment. Human comfort, psychometric processes, load computations, fluid distribution, and controls. Design analysis of HVAC system is taught in the lectures and applied in the class project.
Mechanical Engineering^M Sustainable Energy Design M Sustainable Energy Design M E 426 Sustainable Energy Design (3) MalteEnergy systems with renewable energy and efficient use of energy. Project-based learning: analysis, systems engineering, design, component characteristics, and environmental impacts.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Energy Conversion Systems M Advanced Energy Conversion Systems M E 430 Advanced Energy Conversion Systems (4) KramlichAdvanced and renewable energy conversion systems and technologies are treated. Included are high efficiency combined cycles; renewable energy conversion involving solar, wind, and biomass; direct energy conversion and fuel cells; and nuclear energy. Environmental consequences of energy conversion and environmental control are discussed.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Fluid Mechanics M Advanced Fluid Mechanics M E 431 Advanced Fluid Mechanics (4) MescherAdvanced topics in fluid mechanics, including kinematics, potential theory and vortex dynamics, viscous flow, turbulence, experimental and numerical methods, and design.
Mechanical Engineering^M Turbomachinery M Turbomachinery M E 433 Turbomachinery (4) AlisedaThermodynamics, gas dynamics, and fluid mechanics of axial and centrifugal compressors, pumps, and turbines. Selection of components for engineering applications. Design problems and/or laboratory experiments to illustrate operating characteristics of turbomachines.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Mechanics of Materials and Solids M Advanced Mechanics of Materials and Solids M E 440 Advanced Mechanics of Materials and Solids (3)Study of mechanics of deformable bodies, including three-dimensional stress and strain tensors and their transformations. Equations of compatibility, continuity and equilibrium. Elastic constants. Failure criteria including fracture, yield, and instability. Deflection relations for complex loading and shapes. Indeterminate problems. Design applications and numerical methods.
Mechanical Engineering^M Renewable Energy M Renewable Energy M E 442 Renewable Energy (4) NW P. MALTEIntroduction to renewable energy. Principles and practices: solar, wind, water, and biomass energy conversion.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Biomechanics M Introduction to Biomechanics M E 445 Introduction to Biomechanics (4) J. SANDERSPresents the mechanical behavior of tissues in the body and the application to design of prostheses. Tissues studies include bone, skin, fascia, ligaments, tendons, heart valves, and blood vessels. Discussion of the structure of these tissues and their mechanical response to different loading configurations. An important part of the class is a final project. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 440; Sp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Composite Materials and Design M Introduction to Composite Materials and Design M E 450 Introduction to Composite Materials and Design (3) TuttleStress and strain analysis of continuous fiber composite materials. Orthotropic elasticity, lamination theory, failure criterion, and design philosophies, as applied to structural polymeric composites.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Fracture Mechanics M Introduction to Fracture Mechanics M E 459 Introduction to Fracture Mechanics (3) RamuluDeformation processes leading to fracture, and linear elastic fracture mechanics. Fatigue crack propagation. Fracture control and failure analysis.
Mechanical Engineering^M Kinematics and Linkage Design M Kinematics and Linkage Design M E 460 Kinematics and Linkage Design (3) GanterSynthesis of linkage-type mechanisms using graphical and computer methods.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanics of Thin Films M Mechanics of Thin Films M E 461 Mechanics of Thin Films (3) WangProvides an overview of the thin film deposition processes; the stress and microstructure development during film growth; the mechanisms of adhesion; delamination and fracture; and the state-of-the-art characterization techniques for the microstructure and mechanical properties of thin films, coatings, and nanomaterials. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design M Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design M E 468 Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design (3)Designs to control air pollutants from stationary sources. Procedures for calculating design and operating parameters. Fundamental mechanisms and processes of gaseous and particulate control equipment for absorption and adsorption of gaseous pollutants; electrostatic precipitation and filtration of particulate pollutants. Actual case studies. Offered: jointly with CEE 494/CHEM E 468.
Mechanical Engineering^M Applications of Dynamics in Engineering M Applications of Dynamics in Engineering M E 469 Applications of Dynamics in Engineering (4) StortiApplication of the principles of dynamics to selected engineering problems, such as suspension systems, gyroscopes, electromechanical devices. Includes introduction to energy methods, Hamilton's principle and Lagrange equations, and the design of dynamic system.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanical Vibrations M Mechanical Vibrations M E 470 Mechanical Vibrations (3) ReinhallSingle-degree-of-freedom linear systems techniques. Matrix techniques for multi-degree-of-freedom linear systems. Applications in vibration isolation, transmission, and absorption problems and instrumentation.
Mechanical Engineering^M Automatic Control M Automatic Control M E 471 Automatic Control (4) BergDynamic system modeling; control system stability and performance analysis; compensator design by Bode and root-locus methods.
Mechanical Engineering^M Instrumentation M Instrumentation M E 473 Instrumentation (4) GarbiniPrinciples and practice of industrial and laboratory measurement. Dynamics of instrument response; generalized performance analysis of sensor systems; theory of transducers for motion, force, pressure, flow, and other measurements. Lecture and laboratory.
Mechanical Engineering^M Embedded Computing in Mechanical Systems M Embedded Computing in Mechanical Systems M E 477 Embedded Computing in Mechanical Systems (4) GarbiniAnalysis of electromechanical systems employing microcomputers for control or data acquisition. Microcomputer architecture, memory organization, C language programming, interfaces, and communications. Particular emphasis on design of hardware and software interfaces for real-time interaction with mechanical systems. Weekly laboratory.
Mechanical Engineering^M Finite Element Analysis M Finite Element Analysis M E 478 Finite Element Analysis (4) ReinhallDevelopment of theory and concepts of finite element analysis. Applications in all areas of mechanical engineering, including mechanics of solids, heat transfer, and design of dynamical systems. Weekly computer exercises.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Computer-Aided Technology M Introduction to Computer-Aided Technology M E 480 Introduction to Computer-Aided Technology (4) GanterPrinciples of computer-aided technology. Computer-aided design, engineering, drafting, and manufacturing; computer-aided design systems, geometry, computer graphics, hardware, computer-aided vehicle/system design synthesis. System demonstrations, laboratories, and site visits.
Mechanical Engineering^M Internal Combustion Engines M Internal Combustion Engines M E 481 Internal Combustion Engines (4) Kramlich, MalteInternal combustion engines including spark and compression ignition piston engines, with focus on engine performance and the thermodynamics, combustion, emissions, and efficiency of engines. Impact of greenhouse gas constraints on engines.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Electronic Packaging and Materials M Introduction to Electronic Packaging and Materials M E 485 Introduction to Electronic Packaging and Materials (3) TayaThe governing equations of transport phenomena: mechanical, thermal, and electromagnetic behavior, thermomechanical and electromagnetic properties of packaging materials, electromagnetic characteristics of circuit and transmission lines, thermal management and reliability analysis of packaging, interconnect and material processing technology.
Mechanical Engineering^M Laboratory in Electronic Packaging and Materials M Laboratory in Electronic Packaging and Materials M E 487 Laboratory in Electronic Packaging and Materials (1) Taya, StoebeLaboratory course to accompany M E 485 Experiments related to design, processing and reliability of electronic packaging used in consumer electronics. Co-requisite: M E 485. Offered: jointly with MSE 487.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechatronics Design Preparation M Mechatronics Design Preparation M E 494 Mechatronics Design Preparation (1) GarbiniDesign laboratory preparation. Covers the development of functional specifications; exploration of prior art; static and dynamic modeling.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanical Engineering Design M Mechanical Engineering Design M E 495 Mechanical Engineering Design (4) CooperDesign laboratory involving the identification and synthesis of engineering factors to plan and achieve specific project goals. Current literature and prerequisite texts used as reference sources.
Mechanical Engineering^M Technology-Based Entrepreneurship M Technology-Based Entrepreneurship M E 496 Technology-Based Entrepreneurship (3) FurnessConcentrates on hands-on aspects of innovation and entrepreneurial enterprise development. Examines relationships between innovation, iterative prototyping, and marketing testing. Students identify market opportunities, create new technology-based products and services to satisfy customer needs, and construct and test prototypes. Offered: jointly with IND E 496.
Mechanical Engineering^M Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering M Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering M E 498 Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering (1-5, max. 6)Lecture and/or laboratory. Maximum of 6 credits may be applied toward an undergraduate degree.
Mechanical Engineering^M Special Projects M Special Projects M E 499 Special Projects (2-5, max. 6)Written report required.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Composite Structural Analysis M Advanced Composite Structural Analysis M E 500 Advanced Composite Structural Analysis (3)Covers advanced stress analysis methods for composite structures made of beams, laminates, sandwich plates, and thin shells; stress and buckling analyses of solid and thin-walled composite beams; shear deformable theory for bending of thick laminated plates; and stress and fracture mechanics analysis of bonded joints.
Mechanical Engineering^M Modern Manufacturing Processes M Modern Manufacturing Processes M E 501 Modern Manufacturing Processes (3) RamuluGeneral survey and introduction to modern manufacturing engineering processes. Fundamental principles and practices of modern manufacturing processes. Case studies and exercises relating the course material directly to modern industrial practice. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Continuum Mechanics M Continuum Mechanics M E 503 Continuum Mechanics (3)Reviews concepts of motion, stress, energy for a general continuum; conservation of mass, momentum, and energy; and the second law; constitutive equations for linear/nonlinear elastic, viscous/inviscid fluids, and general materials; and examples/solutions for solid/fluid materials. Offered: jointly with A A 503; A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems M Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems M E 504 Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems (4)Theoretical and practical aspects in design, analysis, and fabrication of MEMS devices. Fabrication processes, including bulk and surface micromachining. MEMS design and layout. MEMS CAD tools. Mechanical and electrical design. Applications such as micro sensors and actuators, or chemical and thermal transducers, recent advances. Offered: jointly with E E 502/MSE 504.
Mechanical Engineering^M Computer Integrated Manufacturing M Computer Integrated Manufacturing M E 505 Computer Integrated Manufacturing (3)Design and analysis of advanced manufacturing systems from a strategic as well as technological perspective. Focus on information generation, management, and coordination aspects of complex manufacturing organizations. Examination of system integration alternatives and consequences for relationships with customers and suppliers.
Mechanical Engineering^M Fluid Mechanics M Fluid Mechanics M E 507 Fluid Mechanics (3)Covers inviscid and viscous imcompressible flows, exact solutions of laminar flows, creeping flows, boundary layers, free-shear flows, vorticity equation, and introduction to vortex dynamics. Offered: jointly with A A 507; W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Theory and Design for Mechanical Measurements M Theory and Design for Mechanical Measurements M E 508 Theory and Design for Mechanical Measurements (3)Fundamental concepts of mechanical measurements, principles of sensors and transducers, signal conditioning and data acquisition, advanced experiment planning and analysis, and applications in mechanical engineering.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory M Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory M E 510 Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory (4)Mathematical foundations for system theory presented from an engineering viewpoint. Includes set theory; functions, inverse functions; metric spaces; finite dimensional linear spaces; linear operators on finite dimensional spaces; projections on Hilbert spaces. Applications to engineering systems stressed. Offered: jointly with A A 510/CHEM E 510/E E 510.
Mechanical Engineering^M Biological Frameworks for Engineers M Biological Frameworks for Engineers M E 511 Biological Frameworks for Engineers (3) SniadeckiIntroduces the fundamentals of biology for an engineer. Covers mechanisms and biomechanics of DNA, proteins, cells, connective tissue, musculoskeletal tissue, and cardiovascular tissue, integration principles of living systems, structure-function relationships, and techniques to study biology and medicine, and tissue engineering. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Life Cycle Assessment M Life Cycle Assessment M E 515 Life Cycle Assessment (3) CooperPresents and discusses the computation structure and data sources for environmental Life Cycle Assessment. Uses Life Cycle Assessment to analyze materials, products, and services. The analysis either identifies opportunities for improvements or selects a superior alternative on the basis of pollution prevention and resource conservation. Offered: W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Seminar M Seminar M E 520 Seminar (-1, max. 6) Offered: AWSp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Thermodynamics M Thermodynamics M E 521 Thermodynamics (3) KramlichFundamental concepts of temperature, thermodynamic properties, and systems. The first, second, and combined laws. Development of the relations of classical thermodynamics. Introduction to statistical thermodynamics.
Mechanical Engineering^M Thermodynamics M Thermodynamics M E 522 Thermodynamics (3) MalteTopics from statistical thermodynamics, including the Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein, and Fermi-Dirac statistics. Solutions of the Schrodinger wave equation and evaluation of the partition function for translation, rotation, and vibration.
Mechanical Engineering^M Energy and Environment Seminar M Energy and Environment Seminar M E 523 Energy and Environment Seminar (1, max. 20) MalteStudent discussions of topics in combustion science and technology, alternative fuels, renewable energy, environmental consequences of energy conversion, and design for environment. Also, presentations by outside experts. May be repeated for credit. Offered: AWSp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Combustion M Combustion M E 524 Combustion (3) KramlichChemical and physical processes of combustion with applications to design of combustors, fuel selection, and consideration of environmental effects.
Mechanical Engineering^M Applied Acoustics I M Applied Acoustics I M E 525 Applied Acoustics I (3) Dahl, ReinhallIntroduces acoustics through various applications such as medical ultrasound, underwater sound, noise control and vibrations. Includes linear acoustics, wave equation, planewave solutions, acoustics scales; reflection, refraction, scattering and diffraction, acoustic sources, radiation form transmission through plates.
Mechanical Engineering^M Special Topics in Acoustics M Special Topics in Acoustics M E 526 Special Topics in Acoustics (3) Dahl, ReinhallAdvanced study of special topics in acoustics, such as medical ultrasound, underwater sound, noise control and vibrations.
Mechanical Engineering^M Musculoskeletal Biomechanics M Musculoskeletal Biomechanics M E 527 Musculoskeletal Biomechanics (4) R. CHINGEngineering principles and mechanics applied to the musculoskeletal system including structure-function property relationships of musculoskeletal tissues, the biomechanics of joint systems, and applications of biomechanics in industry and research. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 520; W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Acoustics of Environmental Noise M Acoustics of Environmental Noise M E 528 Acoustics of Environmental Noise (4)Offered: jointly with CEE 554.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Energy Conservation Systems M Advanced Energy Conservation Systems M E 529 Advanced Energy Conservation Systems (4) KramlichCovers advanced energy conversion systems and technologies, including high efficiency combined cycles, advanced rankine, integrated gasification combined cycle, nuclear, biomass thermal conversion, and fuels cells. Discusses environmental consequences. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Radiative Heat Transfer M Radiative Heat Transfer M E 530 Radiative Heat Transfer (3) MescherCovers black and gray body radiation, radiative material properties, radiation exchange between surfaces, radiation in participating media, and combined radiation with conduction or convection. Offered: W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Conductive Heat Transfer M Conductive Heat Transfer M E 531 Conductive Heat Transfer (3)Analysis of steady-state and transient heat conduction in single- and multidimensional systems by mathematical, graphical, numerical, and analogical methods.
Mechanical Engineering^M Convective Heat Transfer M Convective Heat Transfer M E 532 Convective Heat Transfer (3) KramlichIntroduction to fluid flow and boundary-layer theory as applicable to forced- and natural-convection heat transfer. Condensation and boiling heat transfer.
Mechanical Engineering^M Fluid Mechanics II M Fluid Mechanics II M E 534 Fluid Mechanics II (3) RileyReview of basic principles, some exact solutions and their interpretation, waves (water waves, sound waves, shock waves), boundary layers, jets and wakes, flow stability, turbulence, applications.
Mechanical Engineering^M Computational Techniques in Mechanical Engineering M Computational Techniques in Mechanical Engineering M E 535 Computational Techniques in Mechanical Engineering (3) EmeryAdvanced heat transfer studies of interest to mechanical engineers. Subject coverage varies from year to year.
Mechanical Engineering^M Micro and Nanoscale Fluid Transport Phenomena M Micro and Nanoscale Fluid Transport Phenomena M E 536 Micro and Nanoscale Fluid Transport Phenomena (3) Posner, ShenFocuses on fundamental fluid transport physics at the micro/ and nanometer scale for applications in micro/nanofluidic devices. Presents the core concepts of low-Reynolds number Newtonian fluid mechanics; mass transfer; charged double layers; electrokinetically driven flow and transport; and surface tension. Discusses state of the art micro and nanoscale total analytical devices. Offered: WSp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Topics in Fluid Mechanics M Topics in Fluid Mechanics M E 537 Topics in Fluid Mechanics (3)Selected fluid mechanics relevant to current advances in research and application. Topics selected vary with faculty and student interest, but have included flow stability, special topics in turbulence, and turbulent reacting flows.
Mechanical Engineering^M Renewable Energy I M Renewable Energy I M E 539 Renewable Energy I (4) MalteRenewable energy, principles and practices of energy conversion, with focus on solar energy and bio-energy. Offered: W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Renewable Energy II M Renewable Energy II M E 540 Renewable Energy II (3) MalteExplores renewable energy, principles and practices of energy conversion, focusing on wind and hydrokinetic energy. Offered: Sp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Fatigue of Materials M Fatigue of Materials M E 541 Fatigue of Materials (3) RamuluMacro and micro aspects of fatigue of metals and fatigue mechanisms. Analytical methods for fatigue and life assessment in advanced materials. Offered: W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Fluid Turbulence M Fluid Turbulence M E 543 Fluid Turbulence (3)Methods of characterizing fluid turbulence; probability concepts; spatial and temporal velocity correlations; spectral energy transfer; turbulent diffusion; isotropic turbulence and Kolmogoroff's hypothesis; Taylor's hypothesis; hot-wire measurement techniques.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Turbulence Modeling Techniques M Advanced Turbulence Modeling Techniques M E 544 Advanced Turbulence Modeling Techniques (3) RileyThe Reynolds stress transport equations; plane homogeneous shear flow; modeling the pressure-strain, diffusion, and dissipation rate correlation tensors; one and two-equation turbulence models; near-wall turbulence and wall functions; limitations of length scale and eddy viscosity modeling.
Mechanical Engineering^M Micro-Scale Heat Transfer M Micro-Scale Heat Transfer M E 546 Micro-Scale Heat Transfer (3) MescherCovers advanced heat conduction and radiation principles, emphasizing micro-scale applications. Offered: Sp, odd years.
Mechanical Engineering^M Linear Systems Theory M Linear Systems Theory M E 547 Linear Systems Theory (4)Linearity, linearization, finite dimensionality, time-varying vs. time-invariant linear systems, interconnection of linear systems, functional/structural descriptions of linear systems, system zeros and invertibility, linear system stability, system norms, state transition, matrix exponentials, controllability and observability, realization theory. Offered: jointly with A A 547/E E 547.
Mechanical Engineering^M Linear Multivariable Control M Linear Multivariable Control M E 548 Linear Multivariable Control (3)Introduction to MIMO systems, successive single loop design comparison, Lyapunov stability theorem, full state feedback controller design, observer design, LQR problem statement, design, stability analysis, and tracking design. LQG design, separation principle, stability robustness.
Mechanical Engineering^M Estimation and System Identification M Estimation and System Identification M E 549 Estimation and System Identification (3)Fundamentals of state estimation for linear and nonlinear systems. Discrete and continuous systems. Probability and stochastic systems theory. Models with noise. Kalman-Bucy filters, extended Kalman filters, recursive estimation. Numerical issues in filter design and implementation.
Mechanical Engineering^M Nonlinear Optimal Control M Nonlinear Optimal Control M E 550 Nonlinear Optimal Control (3)Calculus of variations for dynamical systems, definition of the dynamic optimization problem, constraints and Lagrange multipliers, the Pontryagin Maximum Principle, necessary conditions for optimality, the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation, singular arc problems, computational techniques for solution of the necessary conditions. Offered: jointly with A A 550/E E 550.
Mechanical Engineering^M Elasticity I: Elastostatics M Elasticity I: Elastostatics M E 551 Elasticity I: Elastostatics (3) TayaElastostatics, including general formulations of 2D and 3D elastostatic problems (stress function method, complex variable method, displacement potential method). Eshelby's method is emphasized and used to solve 2D and 3D problems with special application to composite materials. Offered: W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Viscoelasticity and Plasticity M Viscoelasticity and Plasticity M E 552 Viscoelasticity and Plasticity (3) TayaCovers viscoelasticity, including the stress-strain equations in terms of convolution integral, Fourier transform, and Laplace transform modes. Plasticity focuses on generalized plastic behavior.
Mechanical Engineering^M Adhesion Mechanics M Adhesion Mechanics M E 553 Adhesion Mechanics (3) TuttleIntroduction to adhesive systems and test/evaluation techniques. Stress/strain analysis methods used with adhesive joints. Examples of practical applications.
Mechanical Engineering^M Thermoelasticity M Thermoelasticity M E 555 Thermoelasticity (3) EmeryBasic equations of thermoelasticity for isotropic elastic solids. Analysis of disks, cylinders, spheres, beams, and plates under steady temperature and sudden and slow heating and cooling. Introduction to thermoelastic stability.
Mechanical Engineering^M Experimental Stress Analysis I M Experimental Stress Analysis I M E 556 Experimental Stress Analysis I (3) TuttleTheory and practice of experimental techniques including strain gages and strain gage-based devices, thermocouples, LVDTs, and transducer design. Lecture and laboratory.
Mechanical Engineering^M Experimental Stress Analysis II M Experimental Stress Analysis II M E 557 Experimental Stress Analysis II (3) TuttleTheory and practice of optical mechanics, including interferometric techniques (moire and holographic), geometric moir methods, and photoelasticity. Lecture and laboratory.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Fracture Mechanics M Introduction to Fracture Mechanics M E 559 Introduction to Fracture Mechanics (3) RamuluApplications of linear fracture mechanics to failure analysis and fracture control based on actual case studies. Fracture toughness and fatigue testing techniques, crack initiation, and propagation fatigue life prediction of mechanical components subjected to environmental effects. Offered: W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanics of Thin Films M Mechanics of Thin Films M E 561 Mechanics of Thin Films (3) WangProvides an overview of the thin film deposition processes; the stress and microstructure development during film growth; the mechanisms of adhesion; delamination and fracture; and the state-of-the-art characterization techniques for the microstructure and mechanical properties of thin films, coatings, and nanomaterials. Offered: A.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Electronic Composites M Introduction to Electronic Composites M E 562 Introduction to Electronic Composites (3) TayaFundamentals of microstructure-macro-property relation of electronic composites. This course covers applications (computers, laser packages, medical devices, MEMS, avionics), functions (mechanical, thermal, electromagnetic, and optical), microstructure-macro-property relations, processing issues, and modeling of electronic composites. Offered: jointly with MSE 562; Sp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing M Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing M E 563 Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing (3)Manufacturing and processing techniques of metal-, polymer-, and ceramic-matrix composites; design considerations related to manufacturing techniques; non-destructive testing of composite structures. Fiber-matrix interfacial features and interactions. Interfacial thermodynamics applied to selection of fiber-matrix combinations.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanical Engineering Analysis M Mechanical Engineering Analysis M E 564 Mechanical Engineering Analysis (3) StortiApplication of mathematical methods to the description and analysis of systems in mechanical engineering. Analogies in heat transfer, fluid flow, stress distribution, dynamics, and feedback control.
Mechanical Engineering^M Mechanical Engineering Analysis M Mechanical Engineering Analysis M E 565 Mechanical Engineering Analysis (3) StortiApplications of vectors, matrices, and partial differential equations to mechanical engineering systems, including computational techniques and analogies.
Mechanical Engineering^M Active and Sensing Materials M Active and Sensing Materials M E 568 Active and Sensing Materials (3) TayaFundamental knowledge of the nano-structure property relations of active and sensing materials, and their devices. Examples of the active and sensing materials include: shape memory alloys (SMAs), ferromagnetic SMAs, ferroelectric, pyroelectric and piezoelectric materials, thermoelectrics, electroactive and conducting polymers, photoactive polymers, photovoltaics, and electrochromic materials. Offered: jointly with MSE 568; Sp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Manifolds and Geometry for Systems and Control M Manifolds and Geometry for Systems and Control M E 570 Manifolds and Geometry for Systems and Control (3)Introduction to fundamentals of calculus on manifolds and group theory with applications in robotics and control theory. Topics include: manifolds, tangent spaces and bundles, Lie groups and algebras, coordinate vs. coordinate-free representations. Applications from physics, robotics, and control theory. Offered: jointly with A A 570/E E 570; W, even years.
Mechanical Engineering^M Methodologies for Engineering Design: Conceptual Design M Methodologies for Engineering Design: Conceptual Design M E 572 Methodologies for Engineering Design: Conceptual Design (3) KumarMethodologies particularly useful in the conceptual or preliminary phase of a design. The design process. Impact of formulating independent functional requirements. Physical and functional coupling in design. Case studies in conceptual design of products and processes.
Mechanical Engineering^M Optimization in System Sciences M Optimization in System Sciences M E 578 Optimization in System Sciences (3)Covers convex sets, separation theorems, theorem of alternatives and their applications, convex analysis, convex functions, conjugation, subgradients, convex optimization, duality and applications, linear and semi-definite programming. Linear matrix inequalities, optimization algorithms, applications in system theory and control, bilinear, rank minimization, optimization software. Offered: jointly with A A 578/E E 578; W.
Mechanical Engineering^M Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems M Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems M E 580 Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems (3)Analysis and design of nonlinear control systems focusing on differential geometric methods. Topics include controllability, observability, feedback linearization, invariant distributions, and local coordinate transformations. Emphasis on systems evolving on Lie groups and linearly uncontrollable systems
Mechanical Engineering^M Digital Control M Digital Control M E 581 Digital Control (3) ChizeckSampled-data systems, and z-transform. Frequency domain properties. Sampling D/A and A/D conversion. Controller design via discrete-time equivalents, direct methods, state feedback and observers. Quantization effects. LQR control and introduction to LQG optimal control.
Mechanical Engineering^M Introduction to Discrete Event Systems M Introduction to Discrete Event Systems M E 582 Introduction to Discrete Event Systems (3) BergModeling DES with automata and Petri nets. Languages. State estimation and diagnostics. Control specifications. Feedback control. Dealing with uncontrollability and unobservability. Dealing with blocking. Timed automata and Petri nets.
Mechanical Engineering^M Nonlinear Control Systems M Nonlinear Control Systems M E 583 Nonlinear Control Systems (3)Analysis of nonlinear systems and nonlinear control system design. Phase plane analysis. Lyapunov stability analysis. Describing functions. Feedback linearization. Introduction to variable structure control.
Mechanical Engineering^M System Identification and Adaptive Control M System Identification and Adaptive Control M E 585 System Identification and Adaptive Control (3)Theory and methods of system identification and adaptive control. Identification of linear-in-parameter systems, using recursive LS and extended LS methods; model order selection. Indirect and direct adaptive control. Controller synthesis, transient and stability properties. Offered: jointly with A A 585/E E 585.
Mechanical Engineering^M Dynamics and Vibrations M Dynamics and Vibrations M E 588 Dynamics and Vibrations (3) ShenVariational techniques, Hamilton's principle, Lagrange's equations applied to dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Vibration analysis of multi-degree-of-freedom and continuous systems.
Mechanical Engineering^M Vibrations M Vibrations M E 589 Vibrations (3) StortiStudy of systems with nonlinear damping and restoring forces excited by deterministic or random inputs. Applications in measurement, testing, and design of mechanical systems. Nonlinear systems are emphasized.
Mechanical Engineering^M Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium M Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium M E 591 Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium (1, max. 30)Colloquium on current topics in robotics and control systems analysis and design. Topics presented by invited speakers as well as on-campus speakers. Emphasis on the cross-disciplinary nature of robotics and control systems. Offered: jointly with A A 591/CHEM E 591/E E 591.
Mechanical Engineering^M Feedforward Control M Feedforward Control M E 593 Feedforward Control (3) DevasiaDesign feedforward controllers for precision output tracking; inversion-based control of non-minimum-phase systems; effect of plant uncertainty on feedforward control; design of feedforward controllers for applications such as vertical take off and landing aircraft, flexible structures and piezo-actuators.
Mechanical Engineering^M Robust Control M Robust Control M E 594 Robust Control (3)Basic foundations of linear analysis and control theory, model realization and reduction, balanced realization and truncation, stabilization problem, coprime factorizations, Youla parameterization, matrix inequalities, H-infinity and H2 control, KYP lemma, uncertain systems, robust H2, integral quadratic constraints, linear parameter varying synthesis, applications of robust control.
Mechanical Engineering^M Networked Dynamics Systems M Networked Dynamics Systems M E 597 Networked Dynamics Systems (3)Provides an overview of graph-theoretic techniques that are instrumental for studying dynamic systems that coordinate their states over a signal-exchange network. Topics include network models, network properties, dynamics over networks, formation control, biological networks, observability, controllability, and performance measures over networks.
Mechanical Engineering^M Topics in Research M Topics in Research M E 598 Topics in Research (1)Doctoral seminar. Offered: AWSp.
Mechanical Engineering^M Special Projects M Special Projects M E 599 Special Projects (1-5, max. 9)Written report required.
Mechanical Engineering^M Independent Study or Research M Independent Study or Research M E 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)Written report required. Offered: AWSpS.
Mechanical Engineering^M Master's Thesis M Master's Thesis M E 700 Master's Thesis (*-)Offered: AWSpS.
Mechanical Engineering^M Doctoral Dissertation M Doctoral Dissertation M E 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-)Offered: AWSpS.
Law^Introduction to American Law Introduction to American Law LAW 100 Introduction to American Law (2-5, max. 5) I&S T. MYHREExamines the structure of the American legal system and how laws are made. Surveys key doctrinal areas of the law learning fundamental legal concepts, and explore how the law functions and evolves over time, including legal issues and decision-making related to statutory or common law. Offered: A.
Law^Introduction to Law Introduction to Law LAW 300 Introduction to Law (3-6, max. 6) I&SUnderstanding the legal system, its functions in the social-economic order, legal reasoning, and the world of legal education and the legal profession. Open to nonlaw students only.
Law^Global Health and Justice Global Health and Justice LAW 305 Global Health and Justice (3-5) I&S
Law^Law, Science, and Technology Law, Science, and Technology LAW 310 Law, Science, and Technology (4) I&S
Law^Problems in Professional Responsibility Problems in Professional Responsibility LAW 410 Problems in Professional Responsibility (4) I&S
Law^Criminal Justice Criminal Justice LAW 415 Criminal Justice (3) I&SExamines pre-trial rights of persons suspected or accused of crime, primarily those rights covered by the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution.
Law^International Contracting: Negotiation and Drafting International Contracting: Negotiation and Drafting LAW 416 International Contracting: Negotiation and Drafting (3) I&SSkills course designed to introduce process and problems of negotiating and drafting international agreements. Client interviewing and counseling and negotiation and drafting of a contract between parties in the United States and Japan. Open to nonlaw students only.
Law^Copyright Copyright LAW 422 Copyright (3) I&S
Law^Public Land Law Public Land Law LAW 429 Public Land Law (3) I&S
Law^Legal Issues of Internet Law Legal Issues of Internet Law LAW 440 Legal Issues of Internet Law (3) I&SIntroduces the basic legal issues raised by networked digital technologies, such as the Internet. Covers jurisdiction, speech, privacy/access, propriety rights (copyrights, domain names), emerging law, leading policy debates, as well as fundamental Internet technical skills. Offered: S.
Law^Land Law and the Urban Environment Land Law and the Urban Environment LAW 442 Land Law and the Urban Environment (3) I&SExamination of the major legal tools available to shape the urban environment by controlling the use of land. Considers zoning, subdivision controls, urban renewal, private land-use restrictions, and the rules of nuisance law. Open to law and nonlaw students.
Law^The Legal Process I The Legal Process I LAW 443 The Legal Process I (3/5) I&SThe system of law and its functions rather than substantive law pertaining to any particular subject or discipline. Open only to nonlaw students.
Law^Constitution and American Public Education Constitution and American Public Education LAW 444 Constitution and American Public Education (3-6, max. 6) I&SExamines the relationships between the Constitution of the United States and the American system of public education, excluding higher education, in areas of constitutional freedom and legal controls, racial desegregation, and equal educational opportunity, including equal financing of the public schools. Offered: jointly with EDLPS 444.
Law^Major Issues in American Constitutional Law Major Issues in American Constitutional Law LAW 445 Major Issues in American Constitutional Law (3) I&SSignificant themes in American constitutional law. Doctrine of judicial review, application of the Bill of Rights to the states, Supreme Court's recognition of fundamental rights, the Equal Protection clause, the Religion clauses, freedom of speech, and presidential powers. Open to law and nonlaw students.
Law^Critical Perspectives in Law Critical Perspectives in Law LAW 447 Critical Perspectives in Law (3) I&SExamination of modern critical legal thought and critics views regarding proposed alternative forms of social ordering.
Law^International Economic Relations and Trade Policy International Economic Relations and Trade Policy LAW 476 International Economic Relations and Trade Policy (3) I&SConsideration of international control of national trade policies and permissible transnational reach of national trade or other regulation. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the international monetary system examined from legal and economic perspective. Examination and comparison of prescriptive jurisdiction to public international law.
Law^Law, Literature, and Film Law, Literature, and Film LAW 477 Law, Literature, and Film ([2-4]-, max. 4) VLPA/I&SAn examination of literary and cinematic portrayals of and issues important to law, lawyers, and the legal system. Considers both portrayals purporting to depict the legal system as well as works envisioning lawyers and the legal system in a "better world.".
Law^Land, American Culture, and the Law: Perspectives on the Use and Ownership of the Natural Environment Land, American Culture, and the Law: Perspectives on the Use and Ownership of the Natural Environment LAW 481 Land, American Culture, and the Law: Perspectives on the Use and Ownership of the Natural Environment (1-6, max. 6) I&S
Law^Law and Aging Law and Aging LAW 489 Law and Aging (3) I&SSurvey of principal areas of law of special concern to aging population, considering healthcare and healthcare decision-making, public and private income maintenance programs, taxation, guardianships, conservatorships, and other methods of protecting the property of the elderly, counseling, and professional responsibility.
Statistics^Numbers and Reason Numbers and Reason STAT 100 Numbers and Reason (5) QSR BooksteinSurveys the standard ways in which "arithmetic turns into understanding" across examples from the natural and the social sciences. Main concepts include abduction (inference to the best explanation), consilience (numerical agreement across multiple measurement levels), bell curves, linear models, and the likelihood of hypothesis. Offered: A.
Statistics^Lectures in Applied Statistics Lectures in Applied Statistics STAT 111 Lectures in Applied Statistics (1) NWWeekly lectures illustrating the importance of statisticians in a variety of fields, including medicine and the biological, physical, and social sciences. Offered: jointly with BIOST 111; Sp.
Statistics^Principles of Statistical Reasoning Principles of Statistical Reasoning STAT 220 Principles of Statistical Reasoning (5) NW, QSRIntroduces statistical reasoning. Focuses primarily on the what and why rather than the how. Helps students gain an understanding of the rationale behind many statistical methods, as well as an appreciation of the use and misuse of statistics. Encourages and requires critical thinking. (Students may receive credit for only one of STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 311, and ECON 311.) Offered: AWSpS.
Statistics^Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences STAT 221 Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences (5) NW, QSRDevelops statistical literacy. Examines objectives and pitfalls of statistical studies; study designs, data analysis, inference; graphical and numerical summaries of numerical and categorical data; correlation and regression; and estimation, confidence intervals, and significance tests. Emphasizes social science examples and cases. (Students may receive credit for only one of STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, and ECON 311.) Offered: jointly with CS&SS 221/SOC 221; AWSp.
Statistics^Statistical Software and Its Applications Statistical Software and Its Applications STAT 302 Statistical Software and Its Applications (3)Introduction to data structures and basics of implementing procedures in statistical computing packages, selected from but not limited to R, SAS, STATA, MATLAB, SPSS, and Minitab. Provides a foundation in computation components of data analysis.
Statistics^Elements of Statistical Methods Elements of Statistical Methods STAT 311 Elements of Statistical Methods (5) NW, QSRElementary concepts of probability and sampling; binomial and normal distributions. Basic concepts of hypothesis testing, estimation, and confidence intervals; t-tests and chi-square tests. Linear regression theory and the analysis of variance. (Students may receive credit for only one of STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, and ECON 311.)
Statistics^Design of Experiments and Regression Analysis Design of Experiments and Regression Analysis STAT 316 Design of Experiments and Regression Analysis (4) NW KapurIntroduction to the analysis of data from planned experiments. Analysis of variance for multiple factors and applications of orthogonal arrays and linear graphs for fractional factorial designs to product and process design optimization. Regression analysis with applications in engineering.
Statistics^Evaluating Social Science Evidence Evaluating Social Science Evidence STAT 320 Evaluating Social Science Evidence (5) I&S, QSRA critical introduction to the methods used to collect data in social science: surveys, archival research, experiments, and participant observation. Evaluates "facts and findings" by understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the methods that produce them. Case based. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 320/SOC 320.
Statistics^Case-Based Social Statistics I Case-Based Social Statistics I STAT 321 Case-Based Social Statistics I (5) I&S, QSRIntroduction to statistical reasoning for social scientists. Built around cases representing in-depth investigations into the nature and content of statistical and social-science principles and practice. Hands-on approach: weekly data-analysis laboratory. Fundamental statistical topics: measurement, exploratory data analysis, probabilistic concepts, distributions, assessment of statistical evidence. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 321/SOC 321.
Statistics^Case-Based Social Statistics II Case-Based Social Statistics II STAT 322 Case-Based Social Statistics II (5) I&S, QSRContinuation of CS&SS 321/SOC 321/STAT 321. Progresses to questions of assessing the weight of evidence and more sophisticated models including regression-based methods. Built around cases investigating the nature and content of statistical principles and practice. Hands-on approach: weekly data analysis laboratory.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Mathematical Statistics I Introduction to Probability and Mathematical Statistics I STAT 340 Introduction to Probability and Mathematical Statistics I (4) QSRCovers the fundamentals of probability and mathematical statistics; axioms of probability, conditional and joint probability, random variables, univariate and multivariate distributions and densities, and moments; bionomial, negative binomial, geometric, Poisson, normal, exponential distributions, and central limit theorem; and basic estimation and hypothesis testing theory.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference I Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference I STAT 341 Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference I (4) NWBrief review of: sample spaces, random variables, probability. Distribution: binomial, normal, Poisson, geometric. Followed by: expectation, variance, central limit theorem. Basic concepts of estimation, testing, and confidence intervals. Maximum likelihood estimators and likelihood ratio tests, efficiency. Introduction to regression.
Statistics^Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference II Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference II STAT 342 Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference II (4) NWBrief review of: sample spaces, random variables, probability. Distribution: binomial, normal, Poisson, geometric. Followed by: expectation, variance, central limit theorem. Basic concepts of estimation, testing, and confidence intervals. Maximum likelihood estimators and likelihood ratio tests, efficiency. Introduction to regression.
Statistics^Statistical Methods in Engineering and Science Statistical Methods in Engineering and Science STAT 390 Statistical Methods in Engineering and Science (4) NWConcepts of probability and statistics. Conditional probability, independence, random variables, distribution functions. Descriptive statistics, transformations, sampling errors, confidence intervals, least squares and maximum likelihood. Exploratory data analysis and interactive computing. Students may receive credit for only one of STAT 390, STAT 481/ECON 481, and ECON 580.
Statistics^Probability and Statistics for Computer Science Probability and Statistics for Computer Science STAT 391 Probability and Statistics for Computer Science (4) NWFundamentals of probability and statistics from the perspective of the computer scientist. Random variables, distributions and densities, conditional probability, independence. Maximum likelihood, density estimation, Markov chains, classification. Applications in computer science.
Statistics^Probability I Probability I STAT 394 Probability I (3) NWSample spaces; basic axioms of probability; combinatorial probability; conditional probability and independence; binomial, Poisson, and normal distributions.
Statistics^Probability II Probability II STAT 395 Probability II (3) NWRandom variables; expectation and variance; laws of large numbers; normal approximation and other limit theorems; multidimensional distributions and transformations.
Statistics^Probability III Probability III STAT 396 Probability III (3) NWCharacteristic functions and generating functions; recurrent events and renewal theory; random walk.
Statistics^Introduction to Resampling Inference Introduction to Resampling Inference STAT 403 Introduction to Resampling Inference (4) NW V. MININIntroduction to computer-intensive data analysis for experimental and observational studies in empirical sciences. Students design, program, carry out, and report applications of bootstrap resampling, rerandomization, and subsampling of cases. Experience programming in R is beneficial. Credit allowed for STAT 403 or STAT 503 but not both.
Statistics^Applied Statistics and Experimental Design Applied Statistics and Experimental Design STAT 421 Applied Statistics and Experimental Design (4) NWComputer-aided data analyses using comparisons between batches, analysis of variance and regression. Evaluation of assumptions, data transformation, reliability of statistical measures (jackknife, bootstrap). Fisher-Gosset controversy.
Statistics^Applied Regression and Analysis of Variance Applied Regression and Analysis of Variance STAT 423 Applied Regression and Analysis of Variance (4) NWRegression analysis. Problems in interpreting regression coefficients. Estimation, including two-stage least squares. Guided regression: building linear models, selecting carriers. Regression residuals. Analysis of variance. Nonparametric regression. Factorial designs, response surface methods.
Statistics^Introduction to Nonparametric Statistics Introduction to Nonparametric Statistics STAT 425 Introduction to Nonparametric Statistics (3) NWOverview of nonparametric methods, such as rank tests, goodness of fit tests, 2 x 2 tables, nonparametric estimation. Useful for students with only a statistical methods course background.
Statistics^Introduction to Analysis of Categorical Data Introduction to Analysis of Categorical Data STAT 427 Introduction to Analysis of Categorical Data (4) NWTechniques for analysis of count data. Log-linear models, logistic regression, and analysis of ordered response categories. Illustrations from the behavioral and biological sciences. Computational procedures.
Statistics^Multivariate Analysis for the Social Sciences Multivariate Analysis for the Social Sciences STAT 428 Multivariate Analysis for the Social Sciences (4) NWMultivariate techniques commonly used in the social and behavioral sciences. Linear models for dependence analysis (multivariate regression, MANOVA, and discriminant analysis) and for interdependence analysis (principal components and factor analysis). Techniques applied to social science data using computer statistical packages.
Statistics^Sampling Theory for Biologists Sampling Theory for Biologists STAT 480 Sampling Theory for Biologists (3) NW J. SKALSKITheory and applications of sampling finite populations including: simple random sampling, stratified random sampling, ratio estimates, regression estimates, systematic sampling, cluster sampling, sample size determinations, applications in fisheries and forestry. Other topics include sampling plant and animal populations, sampling distributions, estimation of parameters and statistical treatment of data.
Statistics^Experimental Design Experimental Design STAT 486 Experimental Design (4) NWEmphasizes data modeling using structured means resulting from choice of experimental and treatment design. Examines experimental designs, including crossed, nested designs; block; split-plot designs; and covariance analysis. Also covers multiple comparisons, efficiency, power, sample size, and pseudo-replication.
Statistics^Introduction to Stochastic Processes Introduction to Stochastic Processes STAT 491 Introduction to Stochastic Processes (3) NWRandom walks, Markov chains, branching processes, Poisson process, point processes, birth and death processes, queuing theory, stationary processes.
Statistics^Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing STAT 492 Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing (3) NWIntroductory stochastic calculus mathematical foundation for pricing options and derivatives. Basic stochastic analysis tools, including stochastic integrals, stochastic differential equations, Ito's formula, theorems of Girsanov and Feynman-Kac, Black-Scholes option pricing, American and exotic options, bond options.
Statistics^Service Learning: Tutoring Experience Service Learning: Tutoring Experience STAT 495 Service Learning: K-12 Tutoring Experience (1-5, max. 5) MoritaTutoring mathematics in local K-12 schools. Offered: AWSp.
Statistics^Special Topics Special Topics STAT 498 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) NWReading and lecture course intended for special needs of students.
Statistics^Design and Analysis of Experiments Design and Analysis of Experiments STAT 502 Design and Analysis of Experiments (4)Design of experiments covering concepts such as randomization, blocking, and confounding. Analysis of experiments using randomization tests, analysis of variance, and analysis of covariance.
Statistics^Practical Methods for Data Analysis Practical Methods for Data Analysis STAT 503 Practical Methods for Data Analysis (4)Basic exploratory data analysis with business examples. Data summaries, multivariate data, time series, multiway tables. Techniques include graphical display, transformation, outlier identification, cluster analysis, smoothing, regression, robustness. Departmental credit allowed for only one of 403 and 503.
Statistics^Applied Regression Applied Regression STAT 504 Applied Regression (4)Least squares estimation. Hypothesis testing. Interpretation of regression coefficients. Categorical independent variables. Interactions. Assumption violations: outliers, residuals, robust regression; nonlinearity, transformations, ACE, CART; nonconstant variance. Variable selection and model averaging.
Statistics^Applied Probability and Statistics Applied Probability and Statistics STAT 506 Applied Probability and Statistics (4)Discrete and continuous random variables, independence and conditional probability, central limit theorem, elementary statistical estimation and inference, linear regression. Emphasis on physical applications.
Statistics^Introduction to Mathematical Statistics: Econometrics I Introduction to Mathematical Statistics: Econometrics I STAT 509 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics: Econometrics I (5)Examines methods, tools, and theory of mathematical statistics. Covers, probability densities, transformations, moment generating functions, conditional expectation. Bayesian analysis with conjugate priors, hypothesis tests, the Neyman-Pearson Lemma. Likelihood ratio tests, confidence intervals, maximum likelihood estimation, Central limit theorem, Slutsky Theorems, and the delta-method. (Credit allowed for only one of STAT 390, STAT 481, and ECON 580.)
Statistics^Statistical Inference Statistical Inference STAT 512 Statistical Inference (4)Review of random variables; transformations, conditional expectation, moment generating functions, convergence, limit theorems, estimation; Cramer-Rao lower bound, maximum likelihood estimation, sufficiency, ancillarity, completeness. Rao-Blackwell theorem. Hypothesis testing: Neyman-Pearson lemma, monotone likelihood ratio, likelihood-ratio tests, large-sample theory. Contingency tables, confidence intervals, invariance. Introduction to decision theory.
Statistics^Statistical Inference Statistical Inference STAT 513 Statistical Inference (4)Review of random variables; transformations, conditional expectation, moment generating functions, convergence, limit theorems, estimation; Cramer-Rao lower bound, maximum likelihood estimation, sufficiency, ancillarity, completeness. Rao-Blackwell theorem. Hypothesis testing: Neyman-Pearson lemma, monotone likelihood ratio, likelihood-ratio tests, large-sample theory. Contingency tables, confidence intervals, invariance. Introduction to decision theory.
Statistics^Stochastic Modeling of Scientific Data Stochastic Modeling of Scientific Data STAT 516 Stochastic Modeling of Scientific Data (3-)Covers discrete-time Markov chain theory; inference for discrete-time Markov chains; Monte Carlo methods; missing data; hidden Markov models; and Gaussian Markov random fields.
Statistics^Stochastic Modeling of Scientific Data Stochastic Modeling of Scientific Data STAT 517 Stochastic Modeling of Scientific Data (-3)Covers Markov random fields; continuous-time Markov chains; birth-death and branching processes; and point processes and cluster models. Procedures for inference for these stochastic processes, including Likelihood methods and estimating equations.
Statistics^Stochastic Modeling Project Stochastic Modeling Project STAT 518 Stochastic Modeling Project (3)Student in-depth analyses, oral presentations, and discussion of selected research articles focusing on stochastic modeling of, and inference for, scientific data.
Statistics^Time Series Analysis Time Series Analysis STAT 519 Time Series Analysis (3)Descriptive techniques. Stationary and nonstationary processes, including ARIMA processes. Estimation of process mean and autocovariance function. Fitting ARIMA models to data. Statistical tests for white noise. Forecasting. State space models and the Kalman filter. Robust time series analysis. Regression analysis with correlated errors. Statistical properties of long memory processes.
Statistics^Spectral Analysis of Time Series Spectral Analysis of Time Series STAT 520 Spectral Analysis of Time Series (4)Estimation of spectral densities for single and multiple time series. Nonparametric estimation of spectral density, cross-spectral density, and coherency for stationary time series, real and complex spectrum techniques. Bispectrum. Digital filtering techniques. Aliasing, prewhitening. Choice of lag windows and data windows. Use of the fast Fourier transform. The parametric autoregressive spectral density estimate for single and multiple stationary time series. Spectral analysis of nonstationary random processes and for randomly sampled processes. Techniques of robust spectral analysis.
Statistics^Advanced Probability Advanced Probability STAT 521 Advanced Probability (3)Measure theory and integration, independence, laws of large numbers. Fourier analysis of distributions, central limit problem and infinitely divisible laws, conditional expectations, martingales.
Statistics^Advanced Probability Advanced Probability STAT 522 Advanced Probability (3)Measure theory and integration, independence, laws of large numbers. Fourier analysis of distributions, central limit problem and infinitely divisible laws, conditional expectations, martingales.
Statistics^Advanced Probability Advanced Probability STAT 523 Advanced Probability (3)Measure theory and integration, independence, laws of large numbers. Fourier analysis of distributions, central limit problem and infinitely divisible laws, conditional expectations, martingales.
Statistics^Design of Medical Studies Design of Medical Studies STAT 524 Design of Medical Studies (3)Design of medical studies, with emphasis on randomized controlled clinical trials. Bias elimination, controls, treatment assignment and randomization, precision, replication, power and sample size calculations, stratification, and ethics. Suitable for graduate students in biostatistics and for research-oriented graduate students in other scientific fields.
Statistics^Nonparametric Regression and Classification Nonparametric Regression and Classification STAT 527 Nonparametric Regression and Classification (3) Minin, Raftery, Richardson, WakefieldCovers techniques for smoothing and classification including spline models, kernel methods, generalized additive models, and the averaging of multiple models. Describes measures of predictive performance, along with methods for balancing bias and variance.
Statistics^Applied Statistics Capstone Applied Statistics Capstone STAT 528 Applied Statistics Capstone (3) McCormick, Sampson, WakefieldCovers technical and non-technical aspects of applied statistics work, building on methods taught in prerequisite courses. Key elements include: study design, determining the aim of the analysis, choosing an appropriate method, and report writing.
Statistics^Sample Survey Techniques Sample Survey Techniques STAT 529 Sample Survey Techniques (3)Design and implementation of selection and estimation procedures. Emphasis on human populations. Simple, stratified, and cluster sampling; multistage and two-phase procedures; optimal allocation of resources; estimation theory; replicated designs; variance estimation; national samples and census materials.
Statistics^Wavelets: Data Analysis, Algorithms, and Theory Wavelets: Data Analysis, Algorithms, and Theory STAT 530 Wavelets: Data Analysis, Algorithms, and Theory (3)Review of spectral analysis. Theory of continuous and discrete wavelets. Multiresolution analysis. Computation of discrete wavelet transform. Time-scale analysis. Wavelet packets. Statistical properties of wavelet signal extraction and smoothers. Estimation of wavelet variance.
Statistics^Theory of Linear Models Theory of Linear Models STAT 533 Theory of Linear Models (3)Examines model structure; least squares estimation; Gauss-Markov theorem; central limit theorems for linear regression; weighted and generalized least squares; fixed and random effects; analysis of variance; blocking and stratification; and applications in experimental design.
Statistics^Statistical Computing Statistical Computing STAT 534 Statistical Computing (3)Introduction to scientific computing. Includes programming tools, modern programming methodologies, (modularization, object oriented design), design of data structures and algorithms, numerical computing and graphics. Uses C++ for several substantial scientific programming projects.
Statistics^Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction, and Computing Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction, and Computing STAT 535 Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction, and Computing (3)Covers statistical learning over discrete multivariate domains, exemplified by graphical probability models. Emphasizes the algorithmic and computational aspects of these models. Includes additional topics in probability and statistics of discrete structures, general purpose discrete optimization algorithms like dynamic programming and minimum spanning tree, and applications to data analysis.
Statistics^Analysis of Categorical and Count Data Analysis of Categorical and Count Data STAT 536 Analysis of Categorical and Count Data (3)Analysis of categorical data in the social sciences. Binary, ordered, and multinomial outcomes, event counts, and contingency tables. Focuses on maximum likelihood estimations and interpretations of results.
Statistics^Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction, and Computing Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction, and Computing STAT 538 Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction, and Computing (3)Reviews optimization and convex optimization in its relation to statistics. Covers the basics of unconstrained and constrained convex optimization, basics of clustering and classification, entropy, KL divergence and exponential family models, duality, modern learning algorithms like boosting, support vector machines, and variational approximations in inference.
Statistics^Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction and Computing Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction and Computing STAT 539 Statistical Learning: Modeling, Prediction and Computing (3) MeilaSupervised, applied project in statistical modeling, prediction, and computing.
Statistics^Multivariate Analysis Multivariate Analysis STAT 542 Multivariate Analysis (3)Multivariate normal distribution; partial and multiple correlation; Hotelling's T2; Bartlett's decomposition; various likelihood ratio tests; discriminant analysis; principal components; graphical Markov models.
Statistics^Bayesian Statistical Methods Bayesian Statistical Methods STAT 544 Bayesian Statistical Methods (3)Statistical methods based on the idea of a probability distribution over the parameter space. Coherence and utility. Subjective probability. Likelihood principle. Conjugate families. Structure of Bayesian inference. Limit theory for posterior distributions. Sequential experiments. Exchangeability. Bayesian nonparametrics. Empirical Bayes methods.
Statistics^Options and Derivatives Options and Derivatives STAT 547 Options and Derivatives (4)Covers theory, computation, and statistics of options and derivatives pricing, including options on stocks, stock indices, futures, currencies, and interest rate derivatives.
Statistics^Machine Learning for Big Data Machine Learning for Big Data STAT 548 Machine Learning for Big Data (4) Fox, GuestrinCovers machine learning and statistical techniques for analyzing datasets of massive size and dimensionality. Representations include regularized linear models, graphical models, matrix factorization, sparsity, clustering, and latent factor models. Algorithms include sketching, random projections, hashing, fast nearest-neighbors, large-scale online learning, and parallel learning (Map-Reduce, GraphLab).
Statistics^Statistical Methods for Portfolios Statistical Methods for Portfolios STAT 549 Statistical Methods for Portfolios (4)Covers the fundamentals of modern statistical portfolio construction and risk measurement, including theoretical foundations, statistical methodology, and computational methods using modern object-oriented software for data analysis, statistical modeling, and numerical portfolio optimization.
Statistics^Statistical Genetics I: Mendelian Traits Statistical Genetics I: Mendelian Traits STAT 550 Statistical Genetics I: Mendelian Traits (3)Mendelian genetic traits. Population genetics; Hardy-Weinberg, allelic variation, subdivision. Likelihood inference, information and power; latent variables and EM algorithm. Pedigree relationships and gene identity. Meiosis and recombination. Linkage detection. Multipoint linkage analysis.
Statistics^Statistical Genetics II: Quantitative Traits Statistical Genetics II: Quantitative Traits STAT 551 Statistical Genetics II: Quantitative Traits (3)Statistical basis for describing variation in quantitative traits. Decomposition of trait variation into components representing genes, environment and gene-environment interaction. Methods of mapping and characterizing quantitative trait loci.
Statistics^Statistical Genetics III: Design and Analysis Statistical Genetics III: Design and Analysis STAT 552 Statistical Genetics III: Design and Analysis (3)Overview of probability models, inheritance models, penetrance. Association and linkage. The lod score method. Affected sib method. Fitting complex inheritance models. Design mapping studies; multipoint, disequilibrium, and fine-scale mapping. Ascertainment.
Statistics^Measure Theory Measure Theory STAT 559 Measure Theory (3) M. DRTONMeasures: Caratheodory Extension Theorem. Measurable functions: Riesz Theorem, Slutsky Theorem. Integration: Fatou's lemma, MCT, DCT; Helly-Bray, Mann-Wald and Skorokhod theorems. Derivatives via signed measures. Measures and processes on products. Distribution and quantile functions. Independence and conditional distributions.
Statistics^Hierarchical Modeling for the Social Sciences Hierarchical Modeling for the Social Sciences STAT 560 Hierarchical Modeling for the Social Sciences (4)Explores ways in which data are hierarchically organized, such as voters nested within electoral districts that are in turn nested within states. Provides a basic theoretical understanding and practical knowledge of models for clustered data and a set of tools to help make accurate inferences.
Statistics^Special Topics in Applied Statistics Special Topics in Applied Statistics STAT 561 Special Topics in Applied Statistics (1-5, max. 15)Data analysis, spectral analysis or robust estimation.
Statistics^Special Topics in Applied Statistics Special Topics in Applied Statistics STAT 562 Special Topics in Applied Statistics (1-5, max. 15)Data analysis, spectral analysis or robust estimation.
Statistics^Bayesian Statistics for the Social Sciences Bayesian Statistics for the Social Sciences STAT 564 Bayesian Statistics for the Social Sciences (4)Statistical methods based on the idea of probability as a measure of uncertainty. Topics covered include subjective notion of probability, Bayes' Theorem, prior and posterior distributions, and data analysis techniques for statistical models.
Statistics^Causal Modeling Causal Modeling STAT 566 Causal Modeling (4)Construction of causal hypotheses. Theories of causation, counterfactuals, intervention vs. passive observation. Contexts for causal inference: randomized experiments; sequential randomization; partial compliance; natural experiments, passive observation. Path diagrams, conditional independence, and d-separation. Model equivalence and causal under-determination.
Statistics^Statistical Analysis of Social Networks Statistical Analysis of Social Networks STAT 567 Statistical Analysis of Social Networks (4)Statistical and mathematical descriptions of social networks. Topics include graphical and matrix representations of social networks, sampling methods, statistical analysis of network data, and applications.
Statistics^Advanced Regression Methods for Independent Data Advanced Regression Methods for Independent Data STAT 570 Advanced Regression Methods for Independent Data (3)Covers linear models, generalized linear and non-linear regression, and models. Includes interpretation of parameters, including collapsibility and non-collapsibility, estimating equations; likelihood; sandwich estimations; the bootstrap; Bayesian inference: prior specification, hypothesis testing, and computation; comparison of approaches; and diagnostics.
Statistics^Advanced Regression Methods for Dependent Data Advanced Regression Methods for Dependent Data STAT 571 Advanced Regression Methods for Dependent Data (3)Covers longitudinal data models, generalized linear and non-linear mixed models; marginal versus conditional models; generalized estimating equations, likelihood-based inference, REML, BLUP, and computation of integrals; Bayesian inference: Markov chain Monte Carlo; covariance models, including models for split plot designs; comparison of approaches; and diagnostics.
Statistics^Advanced Regression Methods: Project Advanced Regression Methods: Project STAT 572 Advanced Regression Methods: Project (3)Student presentations and discussion on selected methodological research articles focusing on regression modeling.
Statistics^Statistical Methods for Survival Data Statistical Methods for Survival Data STAT 576 Statistical Methods for Survival Data (3)Statistical methods for censored survival data arising from follow-up studies on human or animal populations. Parametric and nonparametric methods, Kaplan-Meier survival curve estimator, comparison of survival curves, log-rank test, regression models including the Cox proportional hazards model, competing risks.
Statistics^Special Topics in Advanced Biostatistics Special Topics in Advanced Biostatistics STAT 578 Special Topics in Advanced Biostatistics (*, max. 30)Advanced-level topics in biostatistics offered by regular and visiting faculty.
Statistics^Data Analysis and Reporting Data Analysis and Reporting STAT 579 Data Analysis and Reporting (2, max. 8)Analysis of real data to answer scientific questions. Common data-analytic problems. Sensible approaches to complex data. Graphical and tabular presentation of results. Writing reports for scientific journals, research collaborators, consulting clients. Graduate standing in statistics or biostatistics or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with BIOST 579; AWSp.
Statistics^Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference STAT 581 Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference (3)Limit theorems, asymptotic methods, asymptotic efficiency and efficiency bounds for estimation, maximum likelihood estimation, Bayes methods, asymptotics via derivatives of functionals, sample-based estimates of variability: (bootstrap and jackknife); robustness; estimation for dependent data, nonparametric estimation and testing.
Statistics^Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference STAT 582 Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference (3)Limit theorems, asymptotic methods, asymptotic efficiency and efficiency bounds for estimation, maximum likelihood estimation, Bayes methods, asymptotics via derivatives of functionals, sample-based estimates of variability: (bootstrap and jackknife); robustness; estimation for dependent data, nonparametric estimation and testing.
Statistics^Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference STAT 583 Advanced Theory of Statistical Inference (3)Limit theorems, asymptotic methods, asymptotic efficiency and efficiency bounds for estimation, maximum likelihood estimation, Bayes methods, asymptotics via derivatives of functionals, sample-based estimates of variability: (bootstrap and jackknife); robustness; estimation for dependent data, nonparametric estimation and testing.
Statistics^Statistics Seminar Statistics Seminar STAT 590 Statistics Seminar (*, max. 15)
Statistics^Special Topics in Statistics Special Topics in Statistics STAT 591 Special Topics in Statistics (1-5, max. 15)Distribution-free inference, game and decision theory, advanced theory of estimation (including sequential estimation), robustness, advanced probability theory, stochastic processes or empirical processes.
Statistics^Special Topics in Statistics Special Topics in Statistics STAT 592 Special Topics in Statistics (1-5, max. 15)Distribution-free inference, game and decision theory, advanced theory of estimation (including sequential estimation), robustness, advanced probability theory, stochastic processes or empirical processes.
Statistics^Special Topics in Statistics Special Topics in Statistics STAT 593 Special Topics in Statistics (1-5, max. 15)Distribution-free inference, game and decision theory, advanced theory of estimation (including sequential estimation), robustness, advanced probability theory, stochastic processes or empirical processes.
Statistics^Techniques of Statistical Consulting Techniques of Statistical Consulting STAT 598 Techniques of Statistical Consulting (1)Seminar series covering technical and non-technical aspects of statistical consulting, including skills for effective communication with clients, report writing, statistical tips and rules of thumb, issues in survey sampling, and issues in working as a statistical consultant in academic, industrial, and private-practice settings.
Statistics^Statistical Consulting Statistical Consulting STAT 599 Statistical Consulting (*, max. 12)Consulting experience in data analysis, applied statistics. Student required to provide consulting services to students and faculty three hours per week.
Neuroscience^Introduction to Neurobiology Introduction to Neurobiology NEURO 501 Introduction to Neurobiology (3) CarlsonSurvey of molecular, cellular, and developmental neuroscience, including gene regulation, the cytoskeleton, protein sorting in the secretory pathway, growth factors, and neurotransmitter receptors. Includes lecture discussion of original literature.
Neuroscience^Introduction to Neurobiology Introduction to Neurobiology NEURO 502 Introduction to Neurobiology (5) SherkSystems level survey of vertebrate system, focusing on sensory system, on motor system, and on neuroanatomy. Lectures cover topics in sensory and motor systems. Laboratory includes brain dissection and study of intact, prosected, and sectioned brain and spinal cord. Emphasis is on human nervous system.
Neuroscience^Cognitive and Integrative Neurobiology Cognitive and Integrative Neurobiology NEURO 503 Cognitive and Integrative Neurobiology (4) PhillipsSurvey of all aspects of neuroscience, including a discussion of higher neural processes like motivation, decision making, attention, learning, and memory. Lecture and discussion of original literature.
Neuroscience^Biophysics of Nerve, Muscle, and Synapse Biophysics of Nerve, Muscle, and Synapse NEURO 504 Biophysics of Nerve, Muscle, and Synapse (3) SullivanIntroduces biophysical properties of nerve and muscle cells. Topics include intrinsic electrical properties of neurons, ion channels, receptor signaling, calcium signaling, contraction of muscles, and synaptic function. Offered: jointly with P BIO 504.
Neuroscience^Seminar in Neurobiology and Behavior Seminar in Neurobiology and Behavior NEURO 510 Seminar in Neurobiology and Behavior (0.5, max. 30)Biweekly seminar on current topics. Required for students in the graduate program in neurobiology and behavior and for students supported on Graduate Neuroscience Program Training Grant.
Neuroscience^Seminar in Advanced Neurobiology Seminar in Advanced Neurobiology NEURO 511 Seminar in Advanced Neurobiology (1-3, max. 30)Weekly faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussions of past and current scientific literature in neurobiology and behavior.
Neuroscience^Readings in Advanced Neurobiology and Behavior Readings in Advanced Neurobiology and Behavior NEURO 512 Readings in Advanced Neurobiology and Behavior (1-3, max. 30)Guided study of the primary literature of neurobiology and behavior. Emphasizes critical analysis, accuracy of expression, bibliographical technique, and other factors of good scholarship.
Neuroscience^Teaching Practicum in Neurobiology and Behavior Teaching Practicum in Neurobiology and Behavior NEURO 515 Teaching Practicum in Neurobiology and Behavior (3-6, max. 30)Supervised training in the teaching of neuroscience and related scientific topics.
Neuroscience^Introduction to Laboratory Research in Neurobiology Introduction to Laboratory Research in Neurobiology NEURO 526 Introduction to Laboratory Research in Neurobiology (4, max. 30)Students become familiar with, and assist in, the performance of research on ongoing projects in designated laboratories. Emphasis on employed methodology and techniques.
Neuroscience^Current Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior Current Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior NEURO 527 Current Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior (1, max. 30) RiekePresentation and discussion of current research provides exposure to diverse areas of neurobiology and behavior research.
Neuroscience^Computational Neuroscience Computational Neuroscience NEURO 528 Computational Neuroscience (3)Introduction to computational methods for understanding nervous systems and the principles governing their operation. Topics include representation of information by spiking neurons, information processing in neural circuits, and algorithms for adaptation and learning.
Neuroscience^RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES IN NEUROBIOLOGY & BEHAVIOR RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES IN NEUROBIOLOGY & BEHAVIOR NEURO 535 RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES IN NEUROBIOLOGY & BEHAVIOR (1)
Neuroscience^Neuroendocrinology Neuroendocrinology NEURO 541 Neuroendocrinology (3) SteinerEmphasizes the cellular and molecular aspects of several topics in neuroendocrinology, including neuropeptide genes, reproduction, steroid hormone regulation of gene expression, mechanisms of hormone action, endocrine rhythms, and neural oscillations.
Neuroscience^Quantitative Methods in Neuroscience Quantitative Methods in Neuroscience NEURO 545 Quantitative Methods in Neuroscience (3) RiekeDiscusses quantitative methods applicable to the study of the nervous system. Revolves around computer exercises/discussion of journal papers. May include linear systems theory, Fourier analysis, ordinary differential equations, stochastic processes, signal detection, and information theory.
Neuroscience^Molecular Mechanisms of Synaptic Plasticity Molecular Mechanisms of Synaptic Plasticity NEURO 548 Molecular Mechanisms of Synaptic Plasticity (2) BarriaDiscusses recent primary literature on the molecular mechanisms underlying structural and functional changes of dendritic spines and synapses in the mammalian brain as result of synaptic activity and experience. Offered: jointly with P BIO 548; Sp, even years.
Neuroscience^Biophysics of Calcium Signaling Biophysics of Calcium Signaling NEURO 550 Biophysics of Calcium Signaling (1) Hille, SantanaIntroduction to cellular calcium signaling including theoretical and technical issues of calcium signal detection and biological conclusions.
Neuroscience^Motor Learning: Cellular and Network Mechanisms Motor Learning: Cellular and Network Mechanisms NEURO 554 Motor Learning: Cellular and Network Mechanisms (1) Fetz, PerlmutterFive-week mini-course reviews the current state of research on cellular and network mechanisms of motor learning. After an introductory overview of behavioral and physiological examples of motor learning in various species and systems, students choose specific topics for discussion, using the primary literature as a source. Offered: jointly with P BIO 554.
Neuroscience^Sensory Receptors Sensory Receptors NEURO 555 Sensory Receptors (1) Detwiler, RiekeFive-lecture mini-course examines how different kinds of sensory receptors detect and respond to different modalities of sensory stimuli. Discussion focuses on the cellular and molecular mechanisms of the underlying transduction processes and the experimental evidence that they are based on. Offered: jointly with P BIO 555.
Neuroscience^Axon Pathfinding Mechanisms Axon Pathfinding Mechanisms NEURO 556 Axon Pathfinding Mechanisms (1) BothwellExamines mechanisms governing axon growth cone behavior during embryonic development and during regeneration in the injured adult. Discusses approaches employing both invertebrate and vertebrate model systems. Offered: jointly with P BIO 556.
Neuroscience^Ion Channel Gating Ion Channel Gating NEURO 557 Ion Channel Gating (1) ZagottaCompares and contrasts mechanisms of gating in ligand-gated and voltage-gated ion channels. Covers basics of ligand gating and voltage gating, kinetic schemes, inactivation and desensitization, gating currents and partial agonists, and ion channel structure. Offered: jointly with P BIO 557.
Neuroscience^Neurobiology of Disease Neurobiology of Disease NEURO 559 Neurobiology of Disease (3) Garden, Neumaier, WeinsteinIntroduces medically important neurological and psychiatric diseases and experimental approaches to understanding the basis for diseases and their treatments. Covers stroke, epilespsy, autoimmune diseases of the CNS, neurodegenerative diseases, autism, psychosis, anxiety disorders, and mood disorders. Offered: jointly with NEURL 559/P BIO 559.
Neuroscience^From Biophysics to Neural Computation From Biophysics to Neural Computation NEURO 561 From Biophysics to Neural Computation (2)Introduces the mathematics and methods of neuronal modeling. Develops, compares, and relates dynamical systems approaches and empirical characterizations of neuronal function. Includes lectures, student-led journal paper discussions, biweekly computational workshops on neuronal modeling packages, and a computations project. Offered: jointly with P BIO 561; Sp.
Design^Introduction to Industrial Design Introduction to Industrial Design DESIGN 165 Introduction to Industrial Design (5) VLPAProvides a general introduction to industrial design. Develops students' knowledge through lectures, readings, and studio projects that focus on the history of the discipline and the processes of brainstorming, ideation, skill building, problem solving, and professional presentation used in the creation of design. Includes participation by guest designers.
Design^Design Foundations Design Foundations DESIGN 166 Design Foundations (5) VLPAExamines the rudiments of visual structure and problem solving in two and three-dimensional design. Emphasizes design methodology and design processes with emphasis on the formal principles of composition and organization.
Design^Design Drawing Design Drawing DESIGN 207 Design Drawing (5) VLPAConcentrates on developing skills used to communicate ideas that exist in the imagination. Focuses on study of design drawing history and development of basic skills necessary for ideation, exploration, communication, explanation. Prepares students to visualize and discuss ideas rapidly and professionally. For design majors only.
Design^Survey of Design History Survey of Design History DESIGN 208 Survey of Design History (5) VLPASurveys the ideas, events, and individuals that determined the design of information, objects, culture, and commerce across societies. Examines the social, political, economic, and cultural contexts that shape design and the ideologies ad relationships of similar movements in art and architecture. Includes late nineteenth century through contemporary issues.
Design^Fundamentals of Typography Fundamentals of Typography DESIGN 209 Fundamentals of Typography (5) VLPADevelops understanding of and sensibility to typographic details used to create effective communication. Focus moves from understanding letter forms that make up words to the complexities of developing phrases, sentences, and short paragraphs with multiple levels of hierarchical meaning.
Design^Collaboration and Improvisation Collaboration and Improvisation DESIGN 210 Collaboration and Improvisation (5) VLPAIntroduces key factors in the theory and practice of creating and participating in collaborative projects. Focuses on creating and participating in effective teams, understanding strengths and roles within teams, working through team issues, developing techniques for interdisciplinary problem solving.
Design^3-D Foundation 3-D Foundation DESIGN 211 3-D Foundation (5) VLPAIntroduction to aesthetic fundamentals of 3-dimensional form. Explores the articulation of form and space in both abstract and applied scenarios. Prepares design students for subsequent work in interaction design, design studies, industrial design, and visual communication design.
Design^Introduction to Interaction Design Introduction to Interaction Design DESIGN 212 Introduction to Interaction Design (5) VLPAIntroduces human-computer interaction, interface design, and interactive and time-based media for designers. Reviews foundational interaction design concepts such as human factors, perception, cognition, research techniques, and design methods for the design of interactions.
Design^Topics in Design Topics in Design DESIGN 265 Topics in Design (5, max. 20) VLPARevolving topics class that addresses the thinking, skills, and creative motivations that drive the practice of design.
Design^Design Concepts and Practice Design Concepts and Practice DESIGN 266 Design Concepts and Practice (5, max. 20) VLPARevolving topics class that addresses foundational issues and contemporary practice in the field of design.
Design^Design and Thinking Design and Thinking DESIGN 300 Design and Thinking (5, max. 10) VLPA OzubkoDevelops an approach to conceptual problem solving while exploring their fundamental principles of visual communication. Cultivate critical, analytical, and verbal skills through liberal learning experiences and design methodologies. Offered: S.
Design^Introduction to Industrial Design Introduction to Industrial Design DESIGN 316 Introduction to Industrial Design (5) VLPAIntroduces the fundamentals of 3-D design with emphasis on analytical and intuitive approaches to problem solving, technical skills, and form development.
Design^Intermediate ID Studio 1 Intermediate ID Studio 1 DESIGN 317 Intermediate ID Studio 1 (5) VLPAIntroduces theories, methods, and design development focused on design principles involving form, function, usability, and product development.
Design^Intermediate ID Studio 2 Intermediate ID Studio 2 DESIGN 318 Intermediate ID Studio 2 (5) VLPAIncludes studio experiences that expand upon and combine intellectual and manual skills for the practice of industrial design. Emphasizes the ideation process with form development.
Design^Advanced Design Drawing Advanced Design Drawing DESIGN 319 Advanced Design Drawing (5) VLPAAdvanced visualization and drawing using traditional and computer-aided approaches.
Design^Industrial Design Special Projects Industrial Design Special Projects DESIGN 320 Industrial Design Special Projects (5, max. 15) VLPAProgressive industrial design methodology and criticism introduced through independent or group work on projects to expand students' visual research, drawing, model making, presentation, and literacy skills. Includes contemporary manufacturing and information technologies.
Design^Presentation for Industrial Design I Presentation for Industrial Design I DESIGN 322 Presentation for Industrial Design I (5) VLPAIntroduction to presentation skills, from quick sketching of design concepts to refined representation of the finished design in a two-dimensional format. Emphasis on accuracy and development of an individual style.
Design^Presentation for Industrial Design Presentation for Industrial Design DESIGN 323 Presentation for Industrial Design (5) VLPA
Design^Developing Solutions in Design Developing Solutions in Design DESIGN 365 Developing Solutions in Design (5, max. 20) VLPARevolving topics class that concentrates on learning in specific areas where design can be used to resolve contemporary issues.
Design^Editorial Visualizations Editorial Visualizations DESIGN 366 Editorial Visualizations (5) VLPAExpands focus on design process through a broad variety of image production techniques. Emphasizes concept development and the power of the image for storytelling. Design of stand-alone compositions is expanded into the development of a series of themed works.
Design^Design for Mobile Experiences Design for Mobile Experiences DESIGN 367 Design for Mobile Experiences (5) VLPAInvestigation of strategies and graphic interpretations to develop a critical perspective on design for mobile interaction. Emphasizes development of core methodologies, vocabulary, case studies, best practices, application prototypes.
Design^Case Studies in Corporate Identity Case Studies in Corporate Identity DESIGN 368 Case Studies in Corporate Identity (5) VLPAResearch and analysis of visual identity systems for complex institutional and corporate entities. Focuses on issues that concern how design programs function across divers application and media and how they engage various audiences.
Design^Typography Typography DESIGN 376 Typography (5) VLPAExplores how meaning, hierarchy, and legibility are affected by typographic contrast, organization, and composition. Prepares students to create dynamic compositions with type, understand how type is used as an image/conceptual visualization, understand the nuances/techniques involved in a professional typesetting, and develop vocabulary.
Design^Marks and Symbols Marks and Symbols DESIGN 377 Marks and Symbols (5) VLPAInvestigates formal and conceptual problems associated with mark and symbol design. Students individually/collaboratively research and develop a series of marks and symbols for specific organizations. Helps develop the ability to recognize effective marks/symbols that identify/communicate an identity or idea, identify specific types of marks and symbols, and determine the most suitable types for a specific communication problem.
Design^Information Architecture and Web Design Information Architecture and Web Design DESIGN 378 Information Architecture and Web Design (5) VLPAFundamental issues in web design, including site planning, information architecture, navigation, visual hierarchy, and interactivity. Emphasis on understanding the unique functional limitations of designing for the web while building an awareness of contemporary design practice. Design a simple site and produce a working a prototype.
Design^Design Case Studies: Interaction Design Technology and Production Design Case Studies: Interaction Design Technology and Production DESIGN 381 Design Case Studies: Interaction Design Technology and Production (5) VLPAHistory, theory, and practice of ways design functions in society and culture. Emphasis on developing broad understanding of design production while working collaboratively and individually on a quarter-long research project concerned with producing a comprehensive conceptual map of the design discipline.
Design^Foundations of Interaction Design Foundations of Interaction Design DESIGN 383 Foundations of Interaction Design (5) VLPAFocus on human-to-product interaction and ways we perceive, understand, and experience the world in regard to objects, environments, or on-screen controls/information.
Design^Information Visualization for Interaction Designers Information Visualization for Interaction Designers DESIGN 384 Information Visualization for Interaction Designers (5) VLPASurveys information visualization approaches, techniques, and concepts for the design of interaction information systems, interactive instructions, and animated information graphics.
Design^Design Innovation and Society Design Innovation and Society DESIGN 385 Design Innovation and Society (5) VLPASurveys the role of interaction design and impact of new information technologies and interactive product/systems of everyday life, expert domains, the formation of values and knowledge, and the production of adaptation to innovations.
Design^Visual Storytelling Visual Storytelling DESIGN 386 Visual Storytelling (5) VLPAInvestigates the form and role of visual narratives from design development in the interaction design process. Introduces planning and production of storyboards, photography, video, editing for storytelling, character development, and design concept visualization as they apply to design presentation, communication, and evaluation of interactive design sequences.
Design^Physical Interaction Design Physical Interaction Design DESIGN 387 Physical Interaction Design (5) VLPASurveys approaches, concepts, and techniques for the design of interaction systems that are situated in physical environments.
Design^Materials and Manufacture in Industrial Engineering Materials and Manufacture in Industrial Engineering DESIGN 443 Materials and Manufacture in Industrial Engineering (5) VLPAAnalyzes materials used in mass-produced products, focusing on how these materials impact product design and on finishing quality of products. Emphasizes materials research and manufacturing processes. Team-based research with multi-media report-out at end of quarter.
Design^Prototype Project Development Prototype Project Development DESIGN 444 Prototype Project Development (5) VLPALearn to apply traditional hand tools and digital prototyping machines to the creative process of industrial design.
Design^Advanced Industrial Design Advanced Industrial Design DESIGN 445 Advanced Industrial Design (5) VLPAEmphasizes solving problems through the manipulation of design theory, application of human factors, appropriate combination of materials and manufacturing techniques, and presentation of concepts.
Design^Advanced Industrial Design: Professional Practice Advanced Industrial Design: Professional Practice DESIGN 446 Advanced Industrial Design: Professional Practice (5) VLPACollaboration project with the professional design industry. Students learn how industrial designers brainstorm, develop, and refine initial design concepts to final product solutions.
Design^Senior Projects in Industrial Design Senior Projects in Industrial Design DESIGN 447 Senior Projects in Industrial Design (5) VLPAIndustrial design project of the student's own choosing, with consent of instructor, to refine problem solving and design ability in preparation for graduate exhibition.
Design^Publication Design Publication Design DESIGN 466 Publication Design (5) VLPAStresses the research, development, organization, design, and presentation of a complex printed document, such as a journal, annual report, or large publication. Addresses all aspects of design, content, image creation, and production through a quarter-long project.
Design^Exhibition and Installation Design Exhibition and Installation Design DESIGN 467 Exhibition and Installation Design (5) VLPAExplores how to communicate powerful messages and stories in three-dimensional space, bringing together typography, imagery, and innovative use of materials and structures. Emphasizes sustainable processes and materials.
Design^Type Design Type Design DESIGN 477 Type Design (3-5) VLPAExploration of contemporary type design.
Design^Information Design Information Design DESIGN 478 Information Design (5) VLPAExploration of strategies for enhancing and visually presenting complex statistics and data. Various information subjects are selected and formed into charts, diagrams, graphs, tables, directories and maps. Identify, through personal investigations, the principles which provide the most successful means for presentation of information.
Design^Interaction Design Interaction Design DESIGN 479 Interaction Design (5) VLPAExploration of design issues unique to user-centered interaction in digital media. Explore a range of formal and conceptual issues including user interface, organization, narrative, motion, time, and sound.
Design^Senior Projects in Visual Communication Design Senior Projects in Visual Communication Design DESIGN 480 Senior Projects in Visual Communication Design (5) VLPAPresents an opportunity for advanced, individualized design research and study. Complete a unique capstone project based on individual design interests and prior experiences in the VCD program. Public exhibition of this project is required in the BFA Graduation Exhibition.
Design^Field Studies: Design Research Techniques Field Studies: Design Research Techniques DESIGN 481 Field Studies: Design Research Techniques (5) VLPAStudents develop an understanding of significant theoretical models related to design through a series of readings, lectures, discussions, and assignments.
Design^Advanced Interaction Design Advanced Interaction Design DESIGN 483 Advanced Interaction Design (5) VLPAExplores the role of visual interface design and interaction flows in technology-driven work settings. Introduces techniques for knowledge elicitation and design of interactive systems in expert domains or special use contexts to develop interface that are useful, understandable, and usable.
Design^Senior Projects in Interaction Design Senior Projects in Interaction Design DESIGN 484 Senior Projects in Interaction Design (5) VLPAExplores the design of interactive products and user experience in everyday settings. Students apply interaction design and research techniques in a multi-disciplinary studio for a quarter-long interaction design project requiring collaboration between students from a variety of backgrounds including design, engineering, and computer science.
Design^Portfolio Preparation Portfolio Preparation DESIGN 488 Portfolio Preparation (3) VLPAFocuses on developing the tools to create a successful transition between academia and professional practice as a working designer.
Design^Design Internship Design Internship DESIGN 495 Design Internship (1-5, max. 10)Internships for undergraduates in conjunction with design faculty and business partners in the design community.
Design^Individual Projects-Design Individual Projects-Design DESIGN 499 Individual Projects-Design (2-5, max. 15)Independent projects in design.
Design^Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship DESIGN 501 Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship (2-5, max. 15)Independent study for graduate students to work under the direction of a faculty member as they prepare for and teach an undergraduate class.
Design^Graduate Seminar in Design Graduate Seminar in Design DESIGN 581 Graduate Seminar in Design (5, max. 30)Addresses critical issues in design through research, writing, presentations, and discussion.
Design^Design Graduate Studio Design Graduate Studio DESIGN 582 Design Graduate Studio (5, max. 40)Explores a range of ideas and influences in the context of applied design.
Physics^Physical Science By Inquiry I Physical Science By Inquiry I PHYS 101 Physical Science By Inquiry I (5-) NW, QSR
Physics^Facilitated Group Inquiry I Facilitated Group Inquiry I PHYS 104 Facilitated Group Inquiry I (2) NWLaboratory-based development of concepts and reasoning skills. Develops problem-solving techniques and scientific method in a large group setting. Co-requisite: PHYS 114. Offered: A.
Physics^Facilitated Group Inquiry II Facilitated Group Inquiry II PHYS 105 Facilitated Group Inquiry II (2) NWLaboratory-based development of concepts and reasoning skills. Develops problem-solving techniques and scientific method in a large group setting. Co-requisite: PHYS 115. Offered: W.
Physics^Facilitated Group Inquiry III Facilitated Group Inquiry III PHYS 106 Facilitated Group Inquiry III (2) NWLaboratory-based development of concepts and reasoning skills. Develops problem-solving techniques and scientific method in a large group setting. Co-requisite: PHYS 116. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Physics Concepts for Non-Scientists Physics Concepts for Non-Scientists PHYS 107 Physics Concepts for Non-Scientists (5) NW WilkesOverview of physical science, from subatomic particles to cosmology. Intended to help students understand the importance of scientific research in society with emphasis on basic ideas about how the universe operates. Readings from popular books by leading scientists for non-science majors. For students without high school physics or with limited mathematics background. Offered: W.
Physics^Liberal Arts Physics Liberal Arts Physics PHYS 110 Liberal Arts Physics (5) NW, QSRBasic concepts of physics presented with emphasis on their origin and their impact on society and the Western intellectual tradition. Primarily for students in the arts, humanities, and social sciences. Offered: WSp.
Physics^General Physics General Physics PHYS 114 General Physics (4) NW, QSRBasic principles of physics presented without use of calculus. Suitable for students majoring in technically oriented fields other than engineering or the physical sciences. Mechanics. Credit is not given for both PHYS 114 and PHYS 121. Offered: AWSpS.
Physics^General Physics General Physics PHYS 115 General Physics (4) NWBasic principles of physics presented without use of calculus. Suitable for students majoring in technically oriented fields other than engineering or the physical sciences. Heat and electromagnetism. Credit is not given for both PHYS 115 and PHYS 122.
Physics^General Physics General Physics PHYS 116 General Physics (4) NWBasic principles of physics presented without use of calculus. Suitable for students majoring in technically oriented fields other than engineering or the physical sciences. Sound, light, and modern physics. Credit is not given for both PHYS 116 and PHYS 123.
Physics^General Physics Laboratory General Physics Laboratory PHYS 117 General Physics Laboratory (1) NWMechanics laboratory. Credit is not given for both PHYS 117 and the PHYS 121 laboratory.
Physics^General Physics Laboratory General Physics Laboratory PHYS 118 General Physics Laboratory (1) NWHeat and electromagnetism laboratory. Credit is not given for both PHYS 118 and the PHYS 122 laboratory.
Physics^General Physics Laboratory General Physics Laboratory PHYS 119 General Physics Laboratory (1) NWSound, light, and modern physics laboratory. Credit is not given for both PHYS 119 and the PHYS 123 laboratory.
Physics^Mechanics Mechanics PHYS 121 Mechanics (5) NW, QSRBasic principles of mechanics and experiments in mechanics for physical science and engineering majors. Lecture tutorial and lab components must all be taken to receive credit. Credit is not given for both PHYS 114 and PHYS 121.
Physics^Electromagnetism Electromagnetism PHYS 122 Electromagnetism (5) NWCovers the basic principles of electromagnetism and experiments in these topics for physical science and engineering majors. Lecture tutorial and lab components must all be taken to receive credit. Credit is not given for both PHYS 115 and PHYS 122.
Physics^Waves Waves PHYS 123 Waves (5) NWExplores electromagnetic waves, the mechanics of oscillatory motion, optics, waves in matter, and experiments in these topics for physical science and engineering majors. Lecture tutorial and lab components must all be taken to receive credit. Credit is not given for both PHYS 116 and PHYS 123.
Physics^The Physics of Music The Physics of Music PHYS 207 The Physics of Music (3) NWThe nature of sound; vibrations; traveling and standing waves; response of the ear to sound; production of musical sounds.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry I Physics by Inquiry I PHYS 210 Physics by Inquiry I (5) NWSelected topics in physics with emphasis on depth of understanding and development of skills essential to the scientific process. Develops perspective of science as a process of inquiry.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry I Physics by Inquiry I PHYS 211 Physics by Inquiry I (5) NWSelected topics in physics with emphasis on depth of understanding and development of skills essential to the scientific process. Develops perspective of science as a process of inquiry.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry I Physics by Inquiry I PHYS 212 Physics by Inquiry I (5) NWSelected topics in physics with emphasis on depth of understanding and development of skills essential to the scientific process. Develops perspective of science as a process of inquiry.
Physics^Light and Color Light and Color PHYS 214 Light and Color (5) NW, QSRCompares past explanation of certain familiar natural phenomena with present understandings. Lamps and lighting, outdoor light, optical devices, color vision, perspective, paints, and pigments. Quantitative comparison critical to the course, but college-level mathematics background not required. Intended for non-science students.
Physics^Science and Society Science and Society PHYS 216 Science and Society (5) I&S/NW ChaloupkaInvestigation of the relationship between science, technology, and society. Nuclear physics and molecular biology serve as concrete examples of fields with significant impact on society. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 216; Sp.
Physics^Energy Future: The Technical and Social Barriers to Large-Scale Sustainable Energy Energy Future: The Technical and Social Barriers to Large-Scale Sustainable Energy PHYS 217 Energy Future: The Technical and Social Barriers to Large-Scale Sustainable Energy (5) I&S/NW SeidlerSurveys the scientific, technological, and social barriers to large-scale renewable energy implementation. Includes discussion of solar, wind, nuclear, and other sustainable modalities; energy efficiency; large-scale energy storage; the greenhouse effect; and numerous domestic and international case studies of sustainable energy efforts. Offered: A.
Physics^Thermal Physics Thermal Physics PHYS 224 Thermal Physics (3) NWIntroduces heat, thermodynamics, elementary kinetic theory, and statistical physics.
Physics^Introduction to Quantum Mechanics Introduction to Quantum Mechanics PHYS 225 Introduction to Quantum Mechanics (3) NWEmphasizes two-state systems. Introduces spin and applications in nuclear magnetic resonance.
Physics^Particles and Symmetries Particles and Symmetries PHYS 226 Particles and Symmetries (3) NWIntroduction to the fundamental constituents of matter and the symmetries which characterize their interactions. Topics include special relativity; strong, weak, and electromagnetic interactions; quarks and leptons; baryons and mesons; and neutrinos and nuclei.
Physics^Elementary Mathematical Physics Elementary Mathematical Physics PHYS 227 Elementary Mathematical Physics (4) NWApplications of mathematics in physics with emphasis on the mechanics of particles and continuous systems. Develops and applies computational methods, both analytic and numerical.
Physics^Elementary Mathematical Physics Elementary Mathematical Physics PHYS 228 Elementary Mathematical Physics (4) NWApplications of mathematics in physics with emphasis on the mechanics of particles and continuous systems. Develops and applies computational methods, both analytic and numerical.
Physics^Introductory Experimental Physics Introductory Experimental Physics PHYS 231 Introductory Experimental Physics (3) NWIntroduction to data acquisition and analysis using experiments which measure fundamental constants or properties of nature (Planck's constant, Boltzmann's constant, speed of light, charge of electron).
Physics^Introduction to Computational Physics Introduction to Computational Physics PHYS 232 Introduction to Computational Physics (3) NWComputational techniques applied to physics and data analysis in laboratory setting. Emphasis on numerical solutions of differential equations, least square data fitting, Monte Carlo methods, and Fourier Analysis. A high-level language taught and used; no previous computing experience required.
Physics^Introductory Selected Topics Introductory Selected Topics PHYS 248 Introductory Selected Topics (1-5, max. 15) NW
Physics^Introduction to Research: Frontiers of Physics Introduction to Research: Frontiers of Physics PHYS 294 Introduction to Research: Frontiers of Physics (1) NWProvides a survey of contemporary research in experimental and theoretical physics, with an emphasis on subfields seeing revolutionary changes in understanding. Offered: W.
Physics^Electromagnetism Electromagnetism PHYS 321 Electromagnetism (4) NWFirst of a three-quarter sequence. Charges at rest and in motion; dielectric and magnetic media; electromagnetic waves; relativity and electromagnetism; physical optics.
Physics^Electromagnetism Electromagnetism PHYS 322 Electromagnetism (4) NWContinuation of PHYS 321. Charges at rest and in motion; dielectric and magnetic media; electromagnetic waves; relativity and electromagnetism; physical optics.
Physics^Electromagnetism Electromagnetism PHYS 323 Electromagnetism (4) NWContinuation of PHYS 322. Charges at rest and in motion; dielectric and magnetic media; electromagnetic waves; relativity and electromagnetism; physical optics.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics PHYS 324 Quantum Mechanics (4) NWFirst part of a two-quarter sequence. Introduction to nonrelativistic quantum mechanics: need for quantum theory, Schrodinger equation, operators, angular momentum, the hydrogen atom, identical particles, and the periodic table.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics PHYS 325 Quantum Mechanics (4) NWContinuation of PHYS 324. Introduction to nonrelativistic quantum mechanics: perturbation theory, the variational principle, radiation; application of quantum mechanics to atomic physics, magnetic resonance, scattering, and various special topics.
Physics^Statistical Physics Statistical Physics PHYS 328 Statistical Physics (3) NWElements of statistical mechanics and their applications.
Physics^Mathematical Methods and Classical Mechanics Mathematical Methods and Classical Mechanics PHYS 329 Mathematical Methods and Classical Mechanics (3) NWMathematical methods applied to classical mechanics, including Lagrangian mechanics.
Physics^Optics Laboratory Optics Laboratory PHYS 331 Optics Laboratory (3) NWMeasurements of interference and diffraction, optical properties of matter, image processing, interferometry, holography.
Physics^Electric Circuits Laboratory Electric Circuits Laboratory PHYS 334 Electric Circuits Laboratory (3) NWBasic elements of DC, AC, and transient circuits; electronic devices; electrical measurements.
Physics^Electric Circuits Laboratory Electric Circuits Laboratory PHYS 335 Electric Circuits Laboratory (3) NWElectrical measurements, data management, digital electronics of microprocessor systems. Building a microprocessor application.
Physics^Special Problems Special Problems PHYS 401 Special Problems (*, max. 30)Supervised individual study. Offered: AWSpS.
Physics^Special Problems Special Problems PHYS 402 Special Problems (*, max. 30)Supervised individual study. Offered: AWSpS.
Physics^Special Problems Special Problems PHYS 403 Special Problems (*, max. 30)Supervised individual study. Offered: AWSpS.
Physics^Physical Science by Inquiry II Physical Science by Inquiry II PHYS 405 Physical Science by Inquiry II (5-) NWEmphasis on depth of understanding and development of reasoning and representational skills essential to the scientific process. Provides background for teaching physical science as a process of inquiry and develops scientific literacy. Offered: A.
Physics^Physical Science by Inquiry II Physical Science by Inquiry II PHYS 406 Physical Science by Inquiry II (-5) NWEmphasis on depth of understanding and development of reasoning and representational skills essential to the scientific process. Provides background for teaching physical science as a process of inquiry and develops scientific literacy. Offered: W.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry II Physics by Inquiry II PHYS 407 Physics by Inquiry II (5) NWSelected topics in physics, with emphasis on depth of understanding and development of skills essential to the scientific process. Background for teaching physics at secondary school and introductory college levels. Some mathematical proficiency required.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry II Physics by Inquiry II PHYS 408 Physics by Inquiry II (5) NWSelected topics in physics, with emphasis on depth of understanding and development of skills essential to the scientific process. Background for teaching physics at secondary school and introductory college levels. Some mathematical proficiency required.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry II Physics by Inquiry II PHYS 409 Physics by Inquiry II (5) NWSelected topics in physics, with emphasis on depth of understanding and development of skills essential to the scientific process. Background for teaching physics at secondary school and introductory college levels. Some mathematical proficiency required.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry for In-Service Teachers Physics by Inquiry for In-Service Teachers PHYS 410 Physics by Inquiry for In-Service Teachers (1-2, max. 30) NWA "hands-on" inquiry-oriented approach designed to train in-service teachers in the use of the physical science content for any of several science programs selected by a school or school district.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers PHYS 411 Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers (1-4, max. 4) NWExtends the content covered in previous courses and helps prepare lead teachers to train colleagues to use any of several science programs selected by schools or districts.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers PHYS 412 Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers (1-4, max. 4) NWExtends the content covered in previous courses and helps prepare lead teachers to train colleagues to use any of several science programs selected by schools or districts.
Physics^Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers PHYS 413 Physics by Inquiry for Lead Teachers (1-4, max. 4) NWExtends the content covered in previous courses and helps prepare lead teachers to train colleagues to use any of several science programs selected by schools or districts.
Physics^Contemporary Atomic Physics Contemporary Atomic Physics PHYS 421 Contemporary Atomic Physics (3) NWSurvey of the principal phenomena of atomic and molecular physics.
Physics^Contemporary Nuclear and Particle Physics Contemporary Nuclear and Particle Physics PHYS 422 Contemporary Nuclear and Particle Physics (3) NWSurvey of the principal phenomena of nuclear and elementary-particle physics.
Physics^Contemporary Condensed Matter Physics Contemporary Condensed Matter Physics PHYS 423 Contemporary Condensed Matter Physics (3) NWSurvey of the principal phenomena of solid-state physics.
Physics^Applications of Physics Applications of Physics PHYS 427 Applications of Physics (1-3, max. 12) NWCurrent applications of physics to problems in the sciences and technology.
Physics^Selected Topics in Physics Selected Topics in Physics PHYS 428 Selected Topics in Physics (1-5, max. 12) NW
Physics^Biophysics Biophysics PHYS 429 Biophysics (3)Application of the concepts and methods of physics to biological systems.
Physics^Modern Physics Laboratory Modern Physics Laboratory PHYS 431 Modern Physics Laboratory (3) NWMeasurement in modern atomic, molecular, and solid-state physics.
Physics^Modern Physics Laboratory Modern Physics Laboratory PHYS 432 Modern Physics Laboratory (3) NWMeasurement in modern atomic, molecular, and solid-state physics.
Physics^Modern Physics Laboratory Modern Physics Laboratory PHYS 433 Modern Physics Laboratory (3) NWTechniques in nuclear and elementary-particle research.
Physics^Application of Computers to Physical Measurement Application of Computers to Physical Measurement PHYS 434 Application of Computers to Physical Measurement (3) NWLaboratory giving specific instruction and experience in interfacing laboratory equipment to computers.
Physics^Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos PHYS 436 Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos (4) NWVariational Principle, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Mechanics, phase space, nonlinear dynamics, approach to chaos, Lyapunov exponents, applications to physical systems. Numerical exercises to illustrate phenomena.
Physics^Quantum Physics Quantum Physics PHYS 441 Quantum Physics (4) NWIntroduction to concepts and methods of quantum physics: wave mechanics (de Broglie wavelength, uncertainty principle, Schrodinger equation), one-dimensional examples (tunneling, harmonic oscillator), formalism of quantum physics, angular momentum and the hydrogen atom. Offered: A.
Physics^Issues for Ethnic Minorities and Women In Science and Engineering Issues for Ethnic Minorities and Women In Science and Engineering PHYS 451 Issues for Ethnic Minorities and Women In Science and Engineering (3/5) I&SAddresses issues faced by women and ethnic minorities in physical sciences and engineering. Focuses on participation, barriers to participation, and solutions to those issues for women and ethnic minorities in physical sciences and engineering. Offered: jointly with GWSS 485.
Physics^Water in the Environment Water in the Environment PHYS 460 Water in the Environment (3) NWDiscusses the unique physical and chemical properties of the water molecule in relation to the atmospheric greenhouse effect, precipitation formation, oceanic circulations, infiltration of water through soils, geyser eruptions, and glacier and sea ice thickness.
Physics^Senior Honors Seminar Senior Honors Seminar PHYS 485 Senior Honors Seminar (1, max. 3) NW
Physics^Senior Honors Seminar Senior Honors Seminar PHYS 486 Senior Honors Seminar (1, max. 3) NW
Physics^Senior Honors Seminar Senior Honors Seminar PHYS 487 Senior Honors Seminar (1, max. 3) NW
Physics^Seminar on Current Problems in Physics Seminar on Current Problems in Physics PHYS 494 Seminar on Current Problems in Physics (1, max. 3) NWSupervised, independent study of topics (chosen by faculty in charge) of current interest in physics. Written and oral presentations summarizing work accomplished are required. Offered: A.
Physics^Seminar on Current Problems in Physics Seminar on Current Problems in Physics PHYS 495 Seminar on Current Problems in Physics (1, max. 3) NWSupervised, independent study of topics (chosen by faculty in charge) of current interest in physics. Written and oral presentations summarizing work accomplished are required. Offered: W.
Physics^Seminar on Current Problems in Physics Seminar on Current Problems in Physics PHYS 496 Seminar on Current Problems in Physics (1, max. 3) NWSupervised, independent study of topics (chosen by faculty in charge) of current interest in physics. Written and oral presentations summarizing work accomplished are required. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Tutorials in Teaching Physics Tutorials in Teaching Physics PHYS 501 Tutorials in Teaching Physics (1, max. 2)Preparation for teaching introductory physics; use and critical analysis of instructional materials in a collaborative learning environment; supervised teaching practicum in which instructional materials are used with undergraduates. Offered: A.
Physics^Tutorials in Teaching Physics Tutorials in Teaching Physics PHYS 502 Tutorials in Teaching Physics (1, max. 2)Preparation for teaching introductory physics; use and critical analysis of instructional materials in a collaborative learning environment; supervised teaching practicum in which instructional materials are used with undergraduates. Offered: W.
Physics^Tutorials in Teaching Physics Tutorials in Teaching Physics PHYS 503 Tutorials in Teaching Physics (1, max. 2)Preparation for teaching introductory physics; use and critical analysis of instructional materials in a collaborative learning environment; supervised teaching practicum in which instructional materials are used with undergraduates. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Mechanics Mechanics PHYS 505 Mechanics (3)Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics, with applications to various topics such as coupled oscillators, parametric resonance, anharmonic oscillations, chaos. Offered: W.
Physics^Numerical Methods Numerical Methods PHYS 506 Numerical Methods (3)Integration, solution of differential equations, Monte Carlo methods, function minimization, data analysis, modern computing techniques, computation in experimental physics. Offered: WSp.
Physics^Physical Applications of Group Theory Physical Applications of Group Theory PHYS 507 Physical Applications of Group Theory (3)Applications of finite and continuous groups, representation theory, symmetry, and conservation laws to physical systems. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Topics in Contemporary Physics Topics in Contemporary Physics PHYS 511 Topics in Contemporary Physics (3, max. 9)Topics of current experimental, theoretical, or technological interest in modern physics. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Electromagnetism and Relativity Electromagnetism and Relativity PHYS 513 Electromagnetism and Relativity (3)First of a three-part sequence. Principles of electrostatics, complex variable techniques, boundary value problems and their associated mathematical techniques, Green's functions. Offered: A.
Physics^Electromagnetism and Relativity Electromagnetism and Relativity PHYS 514 Electromagnetism and Relativity (4)Continuation of PHYS 513. Electric and magnetic fields in free space and material media, wave guides and cavity resonators. Offered: W.
Physics^Electromagnetism and Relativity Electromagnetism and Relativity PHYS 515 Electromagnetism and Relativity (4)Continuation of PHYS 514. Special relativity, electromagnetic radiation from accelerated charges, synchrotron radiation, Cerenkov radiation, radiation reaction. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics PHYS 517 Quantum Mechanics (4)First of a three-part sequence. Modern non-relativistic quantum mechanics developed, beginning with its basic principles. Dirac and abstract operator notation introduced, starting with simple examples. Offered: A.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics PHYS 518 Quantum Mechanics (4)Continuation of PHYS 517. Modern non-relativistic quantum mechanics. The character of the theory illustrated both with physical examples and with conceptual problems. Topics include: atomic structure, scattering processes, density operator description of mixed states, and measurement theory. Abstract operator methods emphasized in the exposition of angular momentum, scattering, and perturbation theory. Offered: W.
Physics^Quantum Mechanics Quantum Mechanics PHYS 519 Quantum Mechanics (4)Continuation of PHYS 518. Modern non-relativistic quantum mechanics. Physical examples and conceptual problems. Topics include: atomic structure, scattering processes, density operator description of mixed states, and measurement theory. Abstract operator methods emphasized in the exposition of angular momentum, scattering, and perturbation theory. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Advanced Quantum Mechanics - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory Advanced Quantum Mechanics - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory PHYS 520 Advanced Quantum Mechanics - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory (4)Multi-particle systems, second quantization, diagrammatic perturbation theory, radiation, correlation functions and multi-particle scattering, relativistic theories, renormalizability, basic quantum electrodynamics, and other applications. Offered: A.
Physics^Advanced Quantum Mechanics - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory Advanced Quantum Mechanics - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory PHYS 521 Advanced Quantum Mechanics - Introduction to Quantum Field Theory (3)Multi-particle systems, second quantization, diagrammatic perturbation theory, radiation, correlation functions and multi-particle scattering, relativistic theories, renormalizability, basic quantum electrodynamics, and other applications. Offered: W.
Physics^Advanced Quantum Mechanics: Introduction to Modern Quantum Field Theory Advanced Quantum Mechanics: Introduction to Modern Quantum Field Theory PHYS 522 Advanced Quantum Mechanics: Introduction to Modern Quantum Field Theory (3)Functional integrals, symmetry breaking, critical phenomena and continuum limits, and non-perturbative methods. Offered: Sp.
Physics^Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics PHYS 524 Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics (4)Statistical mechanical basis of the fundamental thermodynamical laws and concepts; classical and quantum statistical distribution functions; applications to selected thermodynamic processes and examples of Bose and Fermi statistics. Offered: A.
Physics^Statistical Mechanics Statistical Mechanics PHYS 525 Statistical Mechanics (3)Introduction to equilibrium and non-equilibrium aspects of many-body systems; scale invariance and universality at phase transitions and critical phenomena; exactly soluble models; Markov processes, master equations and Langevin equation in non-equilibrium stochastic processes.
Physics^Current Problems in Physics Current Problems in Physics PHYS 527 Current Problems in Physics (1)Introduction to current research topics for beginning graduate students. Offered: A.
Physics^Current Problems in Physics Current Problems in Physics PHYS 528 Current Problems in Physics (1)Introduction to current research topics for beginning graduate students. Offered: A.
Physics^Laser Physics Laser Physics PHYS 530 Laser Physics (4)Physics underlying laser design and operation in the context of common laboratory systems. Topics may include continuous and pulsed lasers; solid, liquid, and gas gain media; Q-switching, mode-locking, resonator theory, nonlinear optics, and others.
Physics^Liquid Crystal Devices Liquid Crystal Devices PHYS 532 Liquid Crystal Devices (4)Physics of liquid crystals and applications to practical display devices. Phases, phase transitions, optical and dielectric properties, molecular and device "engineering," future prospects.
Physics^Introduction to Acoustics and Digital Signal Processing Introduction to Acoustics and Digital Signal Processing PHYS 536 Introduction to Acoustics and Digital Signal Processing (4) ChaloupkaIntroduces mathematical and physics principles of acoustics in digital signal processing applications. Complex analysis and Fourier methods, physics of vibrations and waves, solutions of the wave equation, digital convolution and correlation methods, and Maximum Length Sequence method in signal analysis and spread-spectrum applications.
Physics^Applications of Quantum Physics Applications of Quantum Physics PHYS 541 Applications of Quantum Physics (4)Techniques of quantum mechanics applied to lasers, quantum electronics, solids, and surfaces. Emphasis on approximation methods and interaction of electromagnetic radiation with matter.
Physics^Numerical Methods in Physics Numerical Methods in Physics PHYS 542 Numerical Methods in Physics (4)Numerical methods for analysis and computation in physics. Topics may include integration, differential equations, partial differential equations, optimization, data handling, and Monte Carlo techniques. Emphasis is applications in physics.
Physics^Electromagnetic Theory Electromagnetic Theory PHYS 543 Electromagnetic Theory (4)Principal concepts of electromagnetism. Static electric and magnetic fields. Boundary-value problems. Electric and magnetic properties of materials. Electromagnetic waves and radiation.
Physics^Applications of Electromagnetic Theory Applications of Electromagnetic Theory PHYS 544 Applications of Electromagnetic Theory (4)Emphasis may vary from year to year. Topics may include electromagnetic waves, radiation, scattering, wave guides, plasma physics, quantum electronics, and accelerator physics.
Physics^Contemporary Optics Contemporary Optics PHYS 545 Contemporary Optics (4)Coordinated lecture and laboratory treatment of topics in contemporary optics. Subjects include Fourier optics, lens systems, interferometry, laser optics, holography, polarization, crystal optics, birefringence, laser and conventional light sources, optical detectors.
Physics^Condensed-Matter Physics Condensed-Matter Physics PHYS 546 Condensed-Matter Physics (4)Introduction to the theory of solids: crystal structure in real space and reciprocal space, phonons, free electrons, band theory, semiconductor devices.
Physics^Electronics for Physics Research Electronics for Physics Research PHYS 547 Electronics for Physics Research (4)Electronic techniques as applied in physics research. Topics include noise, control-system analysis, operational amplifiers, lock-in amplifiers, precision power supplies and metering, data transmission, microprocessors. Several integrated measurement systems are examined in the context of specific research problems.
Physics^Low-Temperature Physics and Cryogenics Low-Temperature Physics and Cryogenics PHYS 549 Low-Temperature Physics and Cryogenics (4)Condensed-matter physics at low and ultralow temperatures. Production of low temperatures; liquefaction of gases, dilution refrigeration, magnetic and compressional cooling. Macroscopic quantum effects: superconductivity, superfluidity. Applications of superconductors. The ultralow temperature frontier.
Physics^Atomic Physics Atomic Physics PHYS 550 Atomic Physics (3)Theory of atomic structure and spectra; atomic and molecular beams; resonance techniques; atomic collisions; topics of current interest.
Physics^Atomic Physics Atomic Physics PHYS 551 Atomic Physics (3)Theory of atomic structure and spectra; atomic and molecular beams; resonance techniques; atomic collisions; topics of current interest.
Physics^Introduction to Cosmic Ray Physics Introduction to Cosmic Ray Physics PHYS 552 Introduction to Cosmic Ray Physics (3)The nature and cosmological significance of cosmic ray photons and particles. The motion and confinement of particles in the geophysical, interplanetary, and interstellar medium. Theories of the processes involved in the high-energy interaction of cosmic rays, including shower theory. Methods of measurement and current problems.
Physics^Nuclear Astrophysics Nuclear Astrophysics PHYS 554 Nuclear Astrophysics (3)Big bang nucleosynthesis; nuclear reactions in stars; solar neutrinos and neutrino oscillations; core-collapse supernovae; nucleosynthesis in stars, novae, and supernovae; neutron starts; composition and sources of cosmic rays; gamma ray bursts; atmospheric neutrinos. Offered: jointly with ASTR 510; A.
Physics^Cosmology and Particle Astrophysics Cosmology and Particle Astrophysics PHYS 555 Cosmology and Particle Astrophysics (3)Big bang cosmology; relativistic world models and classical tests; background radiation; cosmological implications of nucleosynthesis; baryogenesis; inflation; galaxy and large-scale structure formation; quasars; intergalactic medium; dark matter.
Physics^High Energy Physics High Energy Physics PHYS 557 High Energy Physics (3)First quarter of a three-quarter series. Emphasis on the experimental foundations of particle physics.
Physics^High Energy Physics High Energy Physics PHYS 558 High Energy Physics (3)Second quarter of a three-quarter series. Phenomenology of the standard model of strong and electro-weak interactions, including an introduction to Feynman diagrams.
Physics^High Energy Physics High Energy Physics PHYS 559 High Energy Physics (3)Third quarter of a three-quarter series. Topics of current interest in high-energy particle physics.
Physics^Theoretical Nuclear Physics Theoretical Nuclear Physics PHYS 560 Theoretical Nuclear Physics (3)First of a two-part sequence. Nuclear structure, scattering, reactions, and decays in terms of elementary properties of nucleons and current theoretical models.
Physics^Theoretical Nuclear Physics Theoretical Nuclear Physics PHYS 561 Theoretical Nuclear Physics (3)Continuation of PHYS 560. Nuclear structure, scattering, reactions, and decays in terms of elementary properties of nucleons and current theoretical models.
Physics^General Relativity General Relativity PHYS 564 General Relativity (3)First of a two-part sequence. General covariance and tensor analysis, the relativistic theory of gravitation as given by Einstein's field equations, experimental tests and their significance, and applications of general relativity, particularly in the areas of astrophysics and cosmology.
Physics^General Relativity General Relativity PHYS 565 General Relativity (3)Continuation of PHYS 564. General covariance and tensor analysis, the relativistic theory of gravitation as given by Einstein's field equations, experimental tests and their significance, and applications of general relativity, particularly in the areas of astrophysics and cosmology.
Physics^Theory of Solids Theory of Solids PHYS 567 Theory of Solids (3)First quarter of a course on modern solid state and condensed matter physics, aimed at bringing student's knowledge up to the level of current literature. Topics include structural, electronic, and vibrational properties; optical response functions and dynamics; transport theory; and cooperative phenomena.
Physics^Theory of Solids Theory of Solids PHYS 568 Theory of Solids (3)Second quarter of a course on modern solid state and condensed matter physics, aimed at bringing the student's knowledge up to the level of current literature. Additional topics (see PHYS 567) include magnetism, quantum Hall effect, superconductivity. Offered: WSp.
Physics^Quantum Field Theory Quantum Field Theory PHYS 570 Quantum Field Theory (3)Emphasizes either relativistic quantum field theory or the many-body problem. Normally offered credit/no-credit only.
Physics^Quantum Field Theory Quantum Field Theory PHYS 571 Quantum Field Theory (3)Emphasizes either relativistic quantum field theory or the many-body problem. Normally offered credit/no-credit only.
Physics^Modern Quantum Field Theory Modern Quantum Field Theory PHYS 572 Modern Quantum Field Theory (3)Advanced topics in quantum field theory.
Physics^Selected Topics in Applications of Physics Selected Topics in Applications of Physics PHYS 575 Selected Topics in Applications of Physics (*, max. 30)
Physics^Selected Topics in Experimental Physics Selected Topics in Experimental Physics PHYS 576 Selected Topics in Experimental Physics (*, max. 30)
Physics^Selected Topics in Theoretical Physics Selected Topics in Theoretical Physics PHYS 578 Selected Topics in Theoretical Physics (*, max. 30)
Physics^Physics Colloquium Physics Colloquium PHYS 580 Physics Colloquium (*, max. 30) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in High-Energy Physics Seminar in High-Energy Physics PHYS 581 Seminar in High-Energy Physics (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Particle Theory Seminar in Particle Theory PHYS 582 Seminar in Particle Theory (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Relativistic Astrophysics Seminar in Relativistic Astrophysics PHYS 583 Seminar in Relativistic Astrophysics (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Recent Developments in Atomic Physics Seminar in Recent Developments in Atomic Physics PHYS 584 Seminar in Recent Developments in Atomic Physics (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Experimental Nuclear Physics Seminar in Experimental Nuclear Physics PHYS 585 Seminar in Experimental Nuclear Physics (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Condensed Matter Physics Seminar in Condensed Matter Physics PHYS 586 Seminar in Condensed Matter Physics (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Nuclear Theory Seminar in Nuclear Theory PHYS 587 Seminar in Nuclear Theory (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Particle Astrophysics Seminar Particle Astrophysics Seminar PHYS 588 Particle Astrophysics Seminar (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Problems of Physics Education Seminar in Problems of Physics Education PHYS 589 Seminar in Problems of Physics Education (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Physics^Seminar in Statistical Physics Seminar in Statistical Physics PHYS 590 Seminar in Statistical Physics (1-3, max. 20) Offered: AWSp.
Material Science^Fundamentals of Materials Science Fundamentals of Materials Science MSE 170 Fundamentals of Materials Science (4) NWFundamental principles of structure and properties of materials utilized in practice of engineering. Properties of materials are related to atomic, molecular, crystalline structure. Metals, ceramics, multiphase systems, and polymeric materials. Relationships between structure and electrical, mechanical, thermal, chemical properties. For advanced freshmen and sophomores.
Material Science^Introduction to Molecular Engineering of Interfaces and Surfaces Introduction to Molecular Engineering of Interfaces and Surfaces MSE 273 Introduction to Molecular Engineering of Interfaces and Surfaces (2) NWCovers interfaces and surfaces critical in every field of science, engineering, and medicine from catalytic reactions, drug delivery systems, biocompatibility, carbon fiber composites, semiconductor design, and global warming. Combines active learning, case studies, and hands-on laboratory exploration in nanotechnology. Offered: W.
Material Science^Introduction to Modern Materials Introduction to Modern Materials MSE 298 Introduction to Modern Materials (1)Materials and advances in materials are at the core of a large number of significant technological advances. Seminar format highlights processing, properties, and uses of a broad class of materials for a variety of applications, each introduced by a faculty member from the department. Offered: ASp.
Material Science^Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering MSE 310 Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering (3)Introduces the materials field to new department majors. Examples are drawn from ceramics, metals, polymers, electronic materials, and composites. Structure-properties-manufacturing-design relationships are emphasized. Materials selection design project. Introduction to research. Offered: A.
Material Science^Integrated Junior Laboratory I Integrated Junior Laboratory I MSE 311 Integrated Junior Laboratory I (3)Laboratory experimental techniques including writing, literature search, research planning, and computer applications. Optical microscopy experiments, sample preparations, X-ray equipment, and X-ray diffraction analysis of materials.
Material Science^Integrated Junior Laboratory II Integrated Junior Laboratory II MSE 312 Integrated Junior Laboratory II (3)Materials processing related laboratory experiments, including powder synthesis, redox reactions of particulate materials, grain growth, recyrstallization, phase transformation, green tape processing, particle interaction and rheology, slip and tape casting and dry processing, sol-gel processing, polymer processing, sintering behavior, metal welding, and heat treatment.
Material Science^Integrated Junior Laboratory III Integrated Junior Laboratory III MSE 313 Integrated Junior Laboratory III (3)Kinetics and phase transformation related laboratory experiments, including solidification. Mechanical properties related laboratory experiments, including stress-strain behavior of materials and elastic modulus of materials, effect of work hardening on stress strain behavior, and effect of surface condition of the strength of glass.
Material Science^Thermodynamics and Phase Equilibrium Thermodynamics and Phase Equilibrium MSE 321 Thermodynamics and Phase Equilibrium (4)Phase equilibria in materials systems of one, two, and three components. Determination of phase diagrams. Quantitative applications of thermodynamics to systems of interest to materials scientists; detained review of thermodynamic laws and principles. Offered: A.
Material Science^Kinetics and Microstructural Evolution Kinetics and Microstructural Evolution MSE 322 Kinetics and Microstructural Evolution (4)Applications of thermodynamic and kinetic principles to the study of transport processes, transformations and reactions in engineering materials. Thermal activation and rates of processes, nucleation and growth, phase transformations, grain growth, sintering, among other processes.
Material Science^Crystallography and Structure Crystallography and Structure MSE 331 Crystallography and Structure (3)Theory and practice of x-ray diffraction with applications to materials sitemaps. Principles of crystal symmetry, lattice systems, and stereographic projections. Bragg's law of diffraction, Laue conditions, diffraction by X-rays, single crystal and powder diffraction techniques and their applications to lattice, phase, strain, and texture analyses.
Material Science^Materials Characterization Materials Characterization MSE 333 Materials Characterization (3)Principles and applications of analytical techniques, imaging, diffraction and spectroscopy for materials characterization including crystal structures, texture formation, phase analysis. Nano- and micro-structures of materials including defects and second phases, chemistry, bonding, compositions of materials. Demonstrations and lab experiments involving light scattering and diffraction techniques.
Material Science^Materials Processing I Materials Processing I MSE 342 Materials Processing I (3)Provides students with the fundamentals and applications of metal and alloy processing techniques. Focuses on relationships between the processing fundamentals and practice, and between processing, microstructure, and properties. Ferrous and non-ferrous metal and alloy processing discussed.
Material Science^Electronic Properties of Materials Electronic Properties of Materials MSE 351 Electronic Properties of Materials (3)Introduction to elementary solid-state concepts in materials, free electrons, and band theories. Principles to conduction in metals, insulators, semiconductors, and applications of semiconductors and devices.
Material Science^Functional Properties of Materials I Functional Properties of Materials I MSE 352 Functional Properties of Materials I (3)Introduction to thermal properties, electrical (ionic and polaron) conduction and optical properties, including origins of color, interaction of light wave with materials, lasers and optoelectronics. Focuses on the relations between physical properties and chemical composition, crystal structure, and microstructure.
Material Science^Mechanical Behavior of Materials I Mechanical Behavior of Materials I MSE 362 Mechanical Behavior of Materials I (3)Influence of structure on the mechanical properties materials. Definition of different mechanical properties and experimental techniques to measure them. Elastic, viscoelastic, and plastic deformation. Introduction to fracture.
Material Science^Undergraduate Research Seminar Undergraduate Research Seminar MSE 399 Undergraduate Research Seminar (1)Introduces MSE majors to various research projects available to MSE faculty laboratories. Offered: W.
Material Science^Case Studies in Thermodynamics Case Studies in Thermodynamics MSE 421 Case Studies in Thermodynamics (3)Applications of thermodynamics to the steady state. Statistical interpretation of entropy. Heterogeneous equilibria. Thermodynamics of solutions. Defects in solids and thermodynamics of surfaces.
Material Science^Failure Analysis and Durability of Materials Failure Analysis and Durability of Materials MSE 431 Failure Analysis and Durability of Materials (3)Treats the areas of failure analysis and durability in a wide range of materials applications. Reviews concepts in mechanical and environmental behavior of materials. Includes instruments available to engineers, both destructive and nondestructive, and case studies.
Material Science^Materials Processing II Materials Processing II MSE 442 Materials Processing II (3)Develops a basic understanding of both engineering and science aspects of ceramic processing. Fundamentals of powder processing and characterization, green body formation, sintering, microstructural development and properties.
Material Science^Process Principles in Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Materials Production Process Principles in Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Materials Production MSE 443 Process Principles in Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Materials Production (3)Ironmaking and steelmaking processes analyzed by methods of material and heat balances, computational thermodynamics, and process kinetics. Hydrometallurgical and electrometallurgical operations. Process optimization.
Material Science^Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies MSE 450 Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies (3)Introduces magnetism, magnetic materials, and related applications. Discusses intrinsic and phenomenological concepts of magnetism, ordered magnetics materials, structure-sensitive properties, magnetic phenomena, small particles, thin films, and applications (magnetic recording, permanent magnets, and spin-electronics.
Material Science^Functional Properties of Materials II Functional Properties of Materials II MSE 452 Functional Properties of Materials II (4)Dielectric materials including ferroelectrics, piezoelectrics and pyroelectrics, magnetic properties, high temperature superconductivity, shape memory materials. Detained discussion on relations of these properties with atomic and crystal structures, and applications.
Material Science^Mechanical Behavior of Materials II Mechanical Behavior of Materials II MSE 462 Mechanical Behavior of Materials II (4)Influence of structure on the mechanical properties of materials. Stress-strain tensors and response of materials to multiaxial loads. Effect of symmetry on elastic properties; spring dashpot analogs for viscoelasticity; strengthening mechanisms and continuum plasticity; failure probability and toughening mechanisms; creep, fatigue, and stress corrosion cracking.
Material Science^Corrosion and Wear of Materials Corrosion and Wear of Materials MSE 463 Corrosion and Wear of Materials (4)Mechanisms of corrosion, thermodynamics, kinetics of corrosion. Passivity; Pourbaix diagrams; corrosion rate testing and measurements; forms of corrosion; effects of alloy and environmental variables; corrosion testing. Wear mechanisms: adhesive, abrasive, erosive. Fretting; surface roughness, wear testing. Coatings for corrosion and wear protection. Offered: Sp.
Material Science^Introduction to Polymer Science and Engineering Introduction to Polymer Science and Engineering MSE 471 Introduction to Polymer Science and Engineering (3)Introduction of preparative methods of polymers; physical chemistry of polymeric molecules in solution, liquid and solid phase; thermodynamics of polymers; methods of characterization; mechanical properties; fabrication techniques; properties of commercial polymers. Offered: A.
Material Science^Noncrystalline State Noncrystalline State MSE 473 Noncrystalline State (4)Chemistry and physics of inorganic glass and amorphous semiconductors; structure, properties, and processing of vitreous materials.
Material Science^Introduction to Composite Materials Introduction to Composite Materials MSE 475 Introduction to Composite Materials (4)Microstructural design and processing of composite materials; polymeric, metallic, and ceramic matrices; fibers and fiber-reinforced composites, thermal, mechanical, and electrical properties. Offered: A.
Material Science^High Temperature Materials High Temperature Materials MSE 477 High Temperature Materials (4)Chemical and mineralogical composition; processing methods; thermal, physical, and chemical properties and tests; application in high-temperature processes.
Material Science^Science and Technology of Nanostructures Science and Technology of Nanostructures MSE 481 Science and Technology of Nanostructures (3)Comprehensive introduction to the developing field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. Includes materials properties as a function of length-scale and dimensionality, applications in medicine/biology, electronics, magnetism, and electro-mechanical systems. Cooperative learning approaches involving student participation with team assignments, class activities, lectures, and laboratory visits. Offered: W.
Material Science^Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering MSE 482 Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering (3)Provides fundamental understanding of biomaterials, implant applications, and their design consideration. Includes the fundamentals of synthesis, properties, and biocompatibility of metallic, ceramic, polymeric, composite, and biological materials and their applications for both hard and soft tissue replacement, and controlled drug delivery.
Material Science^Nanomedicine Nanomedicine MSE 483 Nanomedicine (3)Covers methods of synthesis and characterization of nano-sized materials and specific considerations for use in biological systems.
Material Science^Materials Chemistry Materials Chemistry MSE 484 Materials Chemistry (3) NWOverview of basic principles, techniques, and applications associated with solid materials. Topics include description of crystals, examples of crystal structures, structural analysis, band structures of solid materials, preparation of materials, materials for microelectronics, and materials for information technology.
Material Science^Introduction to Electronic Packaging and Materials Introduction to Electronic Packaging and Materials MSE 485 Introduction to Electronic Packaging and Materials (3) TayaThe governing equations of transport phenomena: mechanical, thermal, and electromagnetic behavior, thermomechanical and electromagnetic properties of packaging materials, electromagnetic characteristics of circuit and transmission lines, thermal management and reliability analysis of packaging, interconnect and material processing technology.
Material Science^Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology MSE 486 Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology (3)Processing physics, chemistry, and technology, including evaporation, sputtering, epitaxial growth, diffusion, ion implantation, laser annealing, oxidation, chemical vapor deposition, photoresists. Design considerations for bipolar and MOS devices, materials and process characterization. Future trends.
Material Science^Laboratory in Electronic Packaging and Materials Laboratory in Electronic Packaging and Materials MSE 487 Laboratory in Electronic Packaging and Materials (1) Taya, StoebeLaboratory course to accompany M E 485 Experiments related to design, processing and reliability of electronic packaging used in consumer electronics. Co-requisite: M E 485. Offered: jointly with M E 487.
Material Science^Design in Materials Engineering I Design in Materials Engineering I MSE 491 Design in Materials Engineering I (2)Integration of technical materials engineering concepts with professional components related to materials engineering. Reviews materials design, teamwork, leadership, engineering economics, and ethics. Reports on the professional components important to the senior thesis and begins a two-quarter, team design project on materials engineering.
Material Science^Design in Materials Engineering II Design in Materials Engineering II MSE 492 Design in Materials Engineering II (2)Integration of technical materials engineering concepts with professional components related to materials engineering. Reviews process design, manufacturability, and quality control. Completes the two-quarter team design project on materials engineering.
Material Science^Special Topics Special Topics MSE 498 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15)Special topics in materials science and engineering offered as a course with lectures, conferences, or laboratory. Offered: AWSpS.
Material Science^Special Project Special Project MSE 499 Special Project (*-, max. 5)Materials science and engineering field or laboratory investigations in group or individual setting. Written report required. Offered: AWSpS.
Material Science^Advanced Processing of Inorganic Materials Advanced Processing of Inorganic Materials MSE 501 Advanced Processing of Inorganic Materials (3)Discusses advanced processes of inorganic materials including metals, ceramics, and electronic materials, such as high temperature processing, sintering, solidification, single crystal growth form liquid, and vapor phase deposition. Emphasizes both the fundamentals and practical approaches of these processing techniques. Offered: A, even years.
Material Science^Sol-Gel Processing Sol-Gel Processing MSE 502 Sol-Gel Processing (3)Fundamentals of colloid science and the physics and chemistry of the sol-gel process. Emphasizes the synthesis and applications of various materials, such as multi-component oxides, nano-composites, meso- and microporous materials, organic/inorganic hybrids, and biomaterials that have important applications in both leading technologies and modern industries. Offered: A, odd years.
Material Science^Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems MSE 504 Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems (4)Theoretical and practical aspects in design, analysis, and fabrication of MEMS devices. Fabrication processes, including bulk and surface micromachining. MEMS design and layout. MEMS CAD tools. Mechanical and electrical design. Applications such as micro sensors and actuators, or chemical and thermal transducers, recent advances. Offered: jointly with E E 502/M E 504.
Material Science^Bonding, Crystallography, and Symmetry-Related Properties of Materials Bonding, Crystallography, and Symmetry-Related Properties of Materials MSE 510 Bonding, Crystallography, and Symmetry-Related Properties of Materials (3)Rigorous introduction to the fundamentals of bonding, symmetry, crystallography, and related properties. Quantum mechanical foundation of cohesion and properties of solids. Geometric approach to understanding symmetry elements in 2-D and 3-D, including point groups, space groups, stereographic projections, and bravais lattices. Tensor properties of crystals related to crystallography and symmetry. Offered: A.
Material Science^Experimental Transmission Electron Microscopy Experimental Transmission Electron Microscopy MSE 512 Experimental Transmission Electron Microscopy (3)Fundamentals of electron optics as applied to microscopy; applications of contrast theories and electron diffraction with emphasis on defects and multiphase structures in crystalline solids.
Material Science^Transmission Electron Microscopy Laboratory Transmission Electron Microscopy Laboratory MSE 513 Transmission Electron Microscopy Laboratory (2)One four-hour laboratory and one two-hour discussion/demonstration per week; metallic, ceramic, electronic biological sample preparation techniques; diffraction, imaging, and spectroscopy techniques in electron microscopy.
Material Science^Advanced Transmission Electron Microscopy Advanced Transmission Electron Microscopy MSE 515 Advanced Transmission Electron Microscopy (3)Principles of image formation in crystalline and amorphous materials at the atomic resolution level; high spatial resolution electron diffraction with emphasis on convergent beam electron diffraction; quantitative elemental compositional and chemical analysis with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and electron energy loss spectroscopy; high voltage electron microscopy.
Material Science^Advanced Mineralogy Advanced Mineralogy MSE 518 Advanced Mineralogy (3)Crystal symmetry: point groups, space groups. Mathematical description of crystal structures; group theory, irreducible representations; tensor description of physical properties: stress, strain, piezoelectricity, elasticity; structural and magnetic phase transitions, Landau theory, deformation and creep crystals; elasto-viscous properties of Earth's mantle, crystal chemistry, solid state reactions. Offered: jointly with ESS 537; A.
Material Science^Seminar Seminar MSE 520 Seminar (1, max. 6)Review of research problems in recent literature. Registration required for all graduate students. Offered: AWSp.
Material Science^Applied Rate Phenomena Applied Rate Phenomena MSE 524 Applied Rate Phenomena (3)Introduction to rate theory and transport processes. The principal thrust is on applications in ceramics and metallurgy.
Material Science^Kinetics and Phase Transformations Kinetics and Phase Transformations MSE 525 Kinetics and Phase Transformations (3)Thermodynamic basis for kinetic processes, including diffusion and phase transformation kinetics. Diffusion problems and solution methodologies, statistical treatment of diffusion, solid-liquid and solid-solid transformations, ordering transitions. Special topics related to grain growth, sintering, martensitic transformations.
Material Science^Physics and Modeling f VLSI Fabrication Physics and Modeling f VLSI Fabrication MSE 528 Physics and Modeling f VLSI Fabrication (4)Physics of VLSI fabrication, emphasizing processing modeling and simulation. CMOS process, sequences, point defects and diffusion, ion implantation and annealing, film growth kinetics, deposition and etching, advanced photolithography. Process interactions and process integration. Extensive use of process simulation software.
Material Science^Defects in Materials Defects in Materials MSE 541 Defects in Materials (3)Detailed study of the general properties and effects of point, line, and planar defects in crystalline solids.
Material Science^Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies MSE 550 Magnetism, Magnetic Materials, and Related Technologies (3)Introduce magnetism, magnetic materials, and related applications. Discusses intrinsic and phenomenological concepts of magnetism, ordered magnetic materials, magnetic phenomena, small particles, thin films, and applications (magnetic recording, permanent magnets, and spin-electronic). Offered: Sp.
Material Science^Biomimetics: Bioinspired Design and Processing of Materials Biomimetics: Bioinspired Design and Processing of Materials MSE 555 Biomimetics: Bioinspired Design and Processing of Materials (4)How biological organisms produce materials with controlled structure, chemistry, and hierarchy to attain physical properties far superior to traditional engineering materials. Fundamental biological building materials, their synthesis, and their self-assembly with emphasis on examples of soft and hard tissues. Offered: W, even years.
Material Science^Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers MSE 560 Organic Electronic and Photonic Materials/Polymers (3)Physical and material concepts determining properties of organic electronic and photonic materials. Discusses electronic structure, physico-chemical characterization, and device application. Includes introduction of electronic band structure of polymers, electrically conducting polymers; organic nonlinear optical electroluminescent materials; polymer optical fibers; tow-photon absorption materials for 3-D microfabrication. Offered: jointly with CHEM 564; W.
Material Science^Introduction to Electronic Composites Introduction to Electronic Composites MSE 562 Introduction to Electronic Composites (3) TayaFundamentals of microstructure-macro-property relation of electronic composites. This course covers applications (computers, laser packages, medical devices, MEMS, avionics), functions (mechanical, thermal, electromagnetic, and optical), microstructure-macro-property relations, processing issues, and modeling of electronic composites. Offered: jointly with M E 562; Sp.
Material Science^Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing MSE 563 Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing (3)Manufacturing and processing techniques of metal-, polymer-, and ceramic-matrix composites; design considerations related to manufacturing techniques; non-destructive testing of composite structures. Fiber-matrix interfacial features and interactions. Interfacial thermodynamics applied to selection of fiber-matrix combinations.
Material Science^Electron Theory of Materials Electron Theory of Materials MSE 565 Electron Theory of Materials (3)Solid-state concepts of materials. Atomic bonding, statistical mechanics, Brillouin zone theory. Applications to conduction, optical, and magnetic properties of metals, semiconductors, and insulators. Offered: W, odd years.
Material Science^Active and Sensing Materials Active and Sensing Materials MSE 568 Active and Sensing Materials (3) TayaFundamental knowledge of the nano-structure property relations of active and sensing materials, and their devices. Examples of the active and sensing materials include: shape memory alloys (SMAs), ferromagnetic SMAs, ferroelectric, pyroelectric and piezoelectric materials, thermoelectrics, electroactive and conducting polymers, photoactive polymers, photovoltaics, and electrochromic materials. Offered: jointly with M E 568; Sp.
Material Science^Graduate Tutorial in Materials Science and Engineering Graduate Tutorial in Materials Science and Engineering MSE 570 Graduate Tutorial in Materials Science and Engineering (3)A materials science and engineering tutorial for beginning graduate students who did not major in the field as an undergraduate, or who which to broaden their knowledge of materials science and engineering. Focuses on materials' physical and chemical structures, and their relationship to mechanical, electrical, dielectric, optical, magnetic, and thermal properties.
Material Science^Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering MSE 582 Biomaterials/Nanomaterials in Tissue Engineering (3)Provides fundamental understanding of biomaterials, implant applications, and their design consideration. Includes the fundamentals of synthesis, properties, and biocompatibility of metallic, ceramic, polymeric, composite, and biological materials and their applications for both hard and soft tissue replacement, and controlled drug delivery.
Material Science^Nanomedicine Nanomedicine MSE 583 Nanomedicine (3)Covers methods of synthesis and characterization of nano-sized materials and specific considerations for use in biological systems.
Material Science^Engineering Materials Problems Engineering Materials Problems MSE 598 Engineering Materials Problems (4)Involves a concentrated project which may include the design of a system or process, or analysis of a set of data related to the materials engineering area. Requires a professional quality report and an oral presentation of the results. Offered: AWSpS.
Material Science^Special Topics in Materials Science Special Topics in Materials Science MSE 599 Special Topics in Materials Science (1-5, max. 15)Studies of special advanced topics in materials science.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Environmental Science Introduction to Environmental Science ESRM 100 Introduction to Environmental Science (5) I&S/NW R. HARRISON, D. ZABOWSKICovers the importance of the environment in society with particular emphasis on worldwide distribution and uses of resources, the role of natural and man-made environments, and causes of environmental degradation. Introduces ethics of conservation and recycling. Cannot be taken for credit if ESC 110 already taken. Offered: AWSpS.
Enviromental Science^Forests and Society Forests and Society ESRM 101 Forests and Society (5) I&S/NW K. VOGTSurvey course covering forest ecosystems of the world, history of forestry and forest conservation, how forest ecosystems function, wildlife in forests, environmental issues in forestry, forest management, economics and products, and new approaches to forest management. Open to majors and nonmajors. Cannot be taken for credit if CFR 101 already taken. Offered: ASp.
Enviromental Science^Wildlife in the Modern World Wildlife in the Modern World ESRM 150 Wildlife in the Modern World (5) I&S/NWCovers major wildlife conservation issues in North America. Some global issues are also treated. Examples of topics include the conservation of large predators, effects of toxic chemicals on wildlife, old-growth wildlife, conservation of marine wildlife, recovery of the bald eagle, and gray wolf. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Society and Sustainable Environments Society and Sustainable Environments ESRM 200 Society and Sustainable Environments (5) I&S/NW S. ASAHIntroduces the application of social concepts and theories to understanding and managing urban, urbanizing, and wildland landscapes in a sustainable manner. Of particular interest are factors that shape patterns on the landscape and resulting social and economic benefits. Explores landscapes across the urban to wildland gradient. Offered: WSp.
Enviromental Science^Sustaining Pacific Northwest Ecosystems Sustaining Pacific Northwest Ecosystems ESRM 201 Sustaining Pacific Northwest Ecosystems (5) I&S/NW S. BOLTON, S. DOTYIntroduces the principles of ecology across an urban to wildland gradient and discusses how these landscapes can be sustainably managed. Explores basic ecological theories, plant communities, soil, climate, pollution, hydrology, and wildlife in classroom, labs, and field trips. Offered: ASp.
Enviromental Science^Introductory Soils Introductory Soils ESRM 210 Introductory Soils (5) NW D. ZABOWSKIPhysical, chemical, and biological properties that affect distribution and use patterns of this important ecosystem component. Includes soil morphology and genesis, plant nutrition and nutrient cycling, soil water, microbiology, and application of soil properties to environmental concerns. One Saturday field trip. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Environmental Economics Introduction to Environmental Economics ESRM 235 Introduction to Environmental Economics (5) I&S/NW S. RABOTYAGOVIntroduces environmental and natural resource economics. Discusses fundamental economic concepts, including markets and private property. Includes basic tools used in the economic assessment of environmental problems and applies these methods to key environmental issues. Offered: jointly with ECON 235/ENVIR 235; Sp.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Geographic Information Systems in Forest Resources Introduction to Geographic Information Systems in Forest Resources ESRM 250 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems in Forest Resources (5) NW, QSR J. LAWLERApplications of GIS technology to forest science and management. Fundamentals of GIS systems: data sources, preprocessing, map analysis, output; remote sensing as a source of GIS data, image analysis, and classification. Emphasis on GIS as a source of management and technical information requests. Offered: AWSpS.
Enviromental Science^Principles of Sustainability Principles of Sustainability ESRM 300 Principles of Sustainability (2) I&S/NWOverview of principles of sustainability, including discussion of current literature, presentation, and discussion with practitioners, and methods for balancing social, economic, and ecological consequences of proposed policies and actions. Students develop a plan to further their studies in natural resources and environmental sustainability. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Environmental and Resource Assessment Environmental and Resource Assessment ESRM 304 Environmental and Resource Assessment (5) NW, QSR E. TURNBLOM, D. VOGTThe processes of measuring, monitoring, and assessment; illustrated in diverse environmental and resource case studies. Explores the scientific method, hypothesis testing, sampling, and experimental designs, the role of questionnaires and polling techniques, remote sensing techniques, and population measurements. Offered: ASpS.
Enviromental Science^Soils and Land Use Soils and Land Use ESRM 311 Soils and Land Use (3) NW R. HARRISONIntended for students concerned with environmental problems in the Puget Sound basin; also for those who intend to become professionally involved in land-planning decisions. Focus is on the significance of soils in understanding environmental problems and in promoting intelligent land-use decisions. Basic concepts of soil systems are presented, stressing those aspects important in making land-planning decisions. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Natural Resource Issues: Old-Growth and Forest Management Natural Resource Issues: Old-Growth and Forest Management ESRM 315 Natural Resource Issues: Old-Growth and Forest Management (5) I&S/NW J. FRANKLINBiological and social elements of current conflicts, especially those associated with old-growth and its disposition. Ecology of Pacific Northwest forests and landscapes, history of forest practices, application of emerging science, proposed alternative practices and policies, including analysis of current proposal and its predecessors and successors. Open to majors and nonmajors. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective ESRM 320 Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective (5) I&S/NW D. PAUNIntroduction to business concepts relating to marketing, human resource management, small businesses and entrepreneurship, and economics in the context of environmental resource management. Offered: AS.
Enviromental Science^Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective ESRM 321 Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective (5) I&S/NW D. PAUNIntroduction to business concepts relating to finance, accounting, and international business in the context of environmental resource management. Offered: WS.
Enviromental Science^Silviculture Silviculture ESRM 323 Silviculture (5) NW E. TURNBLOMSilviculture techniques, including nursery practices, clear-cutting, seed trees, shelterwood, selection cutting, site preparation, regeneration methods, thinning, fertilization, chemicals, and regional silviculture in the Northeast, Southeast, Midwest, Rocky Mountains, California, Pacific Northwest, and Alaska. Multiple-use field trips. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Environmental Applications of Plants: Bioenergy and Bioremediation Environmental Applications of Plants: Bioenergy and Bioremediation ESRM 325 Environmental Applications of Plants: Bioenergy and Bioremediation (3) NW S. DOTYExplores current topics in forest bioresources with an emphasis on bioenergy, remediation of pollutants, and carbon sequestration. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^FORESTRY-FISHERIES INTERACTIONS FORESTRY-FISHERIES INTERACTIONS ESRM 328 FORESTRY-FISHERIES INTERACTIONS (4) NWOffered: jointly with FISH 328.
Enviromental Science^Landscape Plant Recognition Landscape Plant Recognition ESRM 331 Landscape Plant Recognition (3) NW S. REICHARDField recognition of important groups of woody landscape plants, emphasizing diversity at the genus and family levels. Cultivated plant nomenclature. Plant descriptive characters evident in the field with eye and hand lens. Hardiness and landscape applications. Offered: jointly with BIOL 331; Sp.
Enviromental Science^Wildlife Biology and Conservation Wildlife Biology and Conservation ESRM 350 Wildlife Biology and Conservation (5) NW A. WIRSINGWildlife ecology and population biology, and interrelationships between wild animals and humans, including encouragement of wildlife population growth and productivity, control of pest populations, and preservation of endangered species with emphasis on forest environments and forest faunas. Open to nonmajors.
Enviromental Science^Wildlife Research Techniques Wildlife Research Techniques ESRM 351 Wildlife Research Techniques (8) NWScientific approaches to the field study of wildlife populations and habitat, including species identification and natural history, experimental design, and report writing. Emphasis on direct experience with current field techniques used in the study of vertebrate populations and habitat.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Restoration Ecology Introduction to Restoration Ecology ESRM 362 Introduction to Restoration Ecology (5) I&S/NW J. BAKKERAn introduction to ecological restoration of damaged ecosystems. Examines the philosophical base of restoration as well as the social, biological, and political forces that impact the success of any restoration project. Includes lectures, readings, case studies, and field trips. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 362; A.
Enviromental Science^Natural Resource Measurements Natural Resource Measurements ESRM 368 Natural Resource Measurements (4) NW E. TURNBLOMIntroduction to principles of measurement, basic field measurement skills, measurement of vegetation, including stand examination, timber cruising, size, weight, volume and biomass of trees, and stream flow. Laboratories include field exercises on sampling techniques for trees and lesser vegetation and linear regression modeling to predict quantities from basic measurements.
Enviromental Science^Environmental Sociology Environmental Sociology ESRM 371 Environmental Sociology (5) I&S/NW S. ASAHSocial processes by which environmental conditions are transformed into environmental problems; scientific claims, popularization of science, issue-framing, problem-amplification, economic opportunism, and institutional sponsorship. Examination of social constructs such as ecosystem, community, and free-market economy. Use of human ecology to assess whether the current framing of environmental problems promotes ecological adaptability. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 379/SOC 379; A.
Enviromental Science^Management of Wildland Recreation and Amenities Management of Wildland Recreation and Amenities ESRM 381 Management of Wildland Recreation and Amenities (3) NWIntroduction and overview of wildland recreation and amenities management. Agency history and objectives explored along with integration of recreation with other land uses. Water, forestry, wildlife, and wilderness resources for recreational uses discussed along with role of private enterprise in recreation and amenities. Topics of current and local interest. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Field or Teaching Internship Field or Teaching Internship ESRM 399 Field or Teaching Internship (1-5, max. 15)Internship experience in undergraduate teaching or in the environmental field, supervised and approved by a faculty member. Preparation of professional report reflecting on the experience is required. Offered: AWSpS.
Enviromental Science^Natural Resource Conflict Management Natural Resource Conflict Management ESRM 400 Natural Resource Conflict Management (3) I&S/NW C. RYANIntroduction to the causes, dynamics, and consequences of natural resource conflicts as well as the range of procedural interventions used to manage conflict. Specific cases of environmental conflict and alternative dispute resolution procedures are examined. Emphasis on developing skills to effectively analyze, manage, and resolve natural resource conflicts. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Spring Comes to the Cascades Spring Comes to the Cascades ESRM 401 Spring Comes to the Cascades (3) NWExamines the interaction between forests, environment, and growth at three locations in the Cascades, from lowlands to alpine. Field trips and associate observations are linked to classroom or group project activities and are used to understand a number of ecological, physiological, and meteorological concepts. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Forest and Economic Development in the Developing World Forest and Economic Development in the Developing World ESRM 403 Forest and Economic Development in the Developing World (4) NW I. EASTINExamines the relationship between forests and economic development in tropical countries. Topics include the role of population growth, poverty, land tenure, and international trade on forest use as well as theories of economic development. Case examples of forest-based economic development in different countries and regions. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Plant Microbiology Laboratory Plant Microbiology Laboratory ESRM 404 Plant Microbiology Laboratory (5) NW S. DOTYFocuses on measuring impacts of beneficial microorganisms on plants. Assays include colonization of plants, N stress alleviation, photosynthesis, and growth enhancement. Microorganisms are characterized by phytohormone production, provision of nutrients, and growth, Microbial strains are identified using standard molecular analysis methods (PCR, cloning, sequencing). Includes short lectures.
Enviromental Science^Growing Stuff: Ecology, Economy, and Culture of Resource-Production Ecosystems Growing Stuff: Ecology, Economy, and Culture of Resource-Production Ecosystems ESRM 405 Growing Stuff: Ecology, Economy, and Culture of Resource-Production Ecosystems (5) I&S S. HARRELLExamines the connections between ecological, economic, and cultural aspects of local ecosystems that produce natural resources, through three case studies involving reading, writing, class discussion, and three required Saturday or weekend field trips. Case studies may include forest products, seafood, dairy products, biofuels, orchard crops, or others. Offered: jointly with ANTH 410/ENVIR 410.
Enviromental Science^Soil Ecology Soil Ecology ESRM 409 Soil Ecology (5) NWSoil organisms in forest and other ecosystems, decomposition, nutrient cycling. Nitrogen transformation, mycorrhizae, effects of forest management. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Forest Soils and Site Productivity Forest Soils and Site Productivity ESRM 410 Forest Soils and Site Productivity (5) NW R. HARRISONConsiders unique properties and processes occurring in forest soils throughout the world with emphasis on soils of Pacific Northwest and aspects of forest soils that affect productivity. Two all-day Saturday field trips and one Saturday-Sunday field trip required. Offered: A, odd years.
Enviromental Science^Plant Propagation: Principles and Practice Plant Propagation: Principles and Practice ESRM 411 Plant Propagation: Principles and Practice (3) NW S. KIMScience and practice of plant propagation including sexual (seed) and asexual (cutting, layering, grafting) propagation. Includes discussion of physiological effects, methodology and laboratory exercises. Wide variety of plants covered. Intended for majors in urban horticulture and urban forestry and others interested in reproducing landscape plants. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Native Plant Production Native Plant Production ESRM 412 Native Plant Production (3) NW J. BAKKERAdvanced plant propagation techniques, emphasizing native plants, propagation for restoration projects, and unique problems associated with providing appropriate plant material for restoration or conservation purposes. Emphasizes greenhouse and fieldwork, and includes lectures, field trips, and a class project. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Soil Genesis and Classification Soil Genesis and Classification ESRM 413 Soil Genesis and Classification (5) NW D. ZABOWSKISoil formation, morphology, classification, and relationship to the environment. Labs and weekend field trips illustrate properties and processes of forest and grassland soils in Washington. Offered: Sp, even years.
Enviromental Science^Forest Soil Fertility and Chemistry Forest Soil Fertility and Chemistry ESRM 414 Forest Soil Fertility and Chemistry (3) NW R. HARRISONTree growth depends, in part, on the interaction between chemical and biological activities within a given soil: the biological and chemical parameters that influence the growth; soil solution chemistry and surface reactions; reactions and processes that control essential plant nutrient levels and forms in soil solutions. Offered: Sp, odd years.
Enviromental Science^Biology, Ecology, and Management of Plant Invasions Biology, Ecology, and Management of Plant Invasions ESRM 415 Biology, Ecology, and Management of Plant Invasions (5) NW S. REICHARDExplores how biological invasions are one of the most serious threats to the preservation of biodiversity worldwide. Explores the vectors which move plants and their pests, the biology and impacts of the invasive species, and management and policy approaches.
Enviromental Science^Field Survey of Wildland Soils Field Survey of Wildland Soils ESRM 416 Field Survey of Wildland Soils (3) NW R. HARRISON, D. ZABOWSKIStudy of soils in remote sites about which little information is available. Focus is field trip in Cascade Mountains just north of Glacier Peak with prior study of hiking area, soil and ecosystem changes, and wilderness use. Offered: S, odd years.
Enviromental Science^Wildland Fire Management Wildland Fire Management ESRM 420 Wildland Fire Management (5) NW E. ALVARADO-CELESTINPrinciples of wildland fire behavior, ecology, and management. Weather, fuels, and topography effects on fire behavior. Forest structure influence on historical and current fire ecology. Principles of firesafe forests. Management issues of fire control and use in wilderness, multiple-use forest, and the wildland-urban interface. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Ecosystem Management Ecosystem Management ESRM 425 Ecosystem Management (5) NW J. FRANKLINScientific and social basis for ecological forestry. Forest practices to achieve integrated environmental and economic goals based upon material models of disturbance and stand development including alternative harvesting methods; adaptive management and monitoring; certification and global issues. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Wildland Hydrology Wildland Hydrology ESRM 426 Wildland Hydrology (4) NW S. BOLTONIntroduction to the hydrologic cycle and basic hydrologic methods as applied to wildlands. Effects of forest management activities on hydrologic processes. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Principles of Silviculture and Their Application Principles of Silviculture and Their Application ESRM 428 Principles of Silviculture and Their Application (5) NW FordFocuses on the biology of major tree species in the PNW and their use in silviculture, stand development in plantation forest systems and its relationship to forest yield, the advantages and limitations of plantation silviculture relating to specific biotic, abiotic, and economic conditions, and management for objectives other than time yield.
Enviromental Science^Environmental Science and Resource Management Seminar Environmental Science and Resource Management Seminar ESRM 429 Environmental Science and Resource Management Seminar (1, max. 6) NWWeekly presentations covering environmental topics by scientists on and off campus Offered: AWSp.
Enviromental Science^Remote Sensing of the Environment Remote Sensing of the Environment ESRM 430 Remote Sensing of the Environment (5) NW MoskalFocuses on hyperspatial remote sensing fundamentals, interpretation and manipulation of aerial photography, satellite imagery, and Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR). Uses traditional and 'state of the art' image processing techniques. Students learn to evaluate available hyperspatial remote sensing data sources and design simple projects related to environmental applications. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Forest Entomology Forest Entomology ESRM 435 Forest Entomology (3) NWIntroduction to general entomology, characteristics, life histories, ecological relations, prevention, and control of forest insects. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^LABORATORY IN FOREST ENTOMOLOGY LABORATORY IN FOREST ENTOMOLOGY ESRM 436 LABORATORY IN FOREST ENTOMOLOGY (2) NW
Enviromental Science^Landscape Ecology Landscape Ecology ESRM 441 Landscape Ecology (5) NW J. LAWLERBasic landscape ecology concepts, including patches, corridors, networks, spatial dynamics; island biogeographic principles; landscape analysis methods; landscape models. Applications of landscape ecology in resources management (e.g., cumulative effects, cutting, patterns, anadromous fisheries, management of wildlife populations, and open-space planning). Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Forest Ecology and the Sierra Nevada and White Mountains Forest Ecology and the Sierra Nevada and White Mountains ESRM 442 Forest Ecology and the Sierra Nevada and White Mountains (5) NWAn ongoing research project used as a vehicle for learning field methods, natural history, Sierra Nevada species, and ecological theory. Fieldwork occurs on the Yosemite Forest Dynamics Plot, a long-term study of community dynamics.
Enviromental Science^Wildlife Ecology and Conservation Wildlife Ecology and Conservation ESRM 450 Wildlife Ecology and Conservation (5) NW A. WIRSINGCovers principles of wildlife ecology such as habitat use and selection, population and metapopulation dynamics, and predator-prey interactions, and illustrates how they apply to wildlife conservation problems with terrestrial, aquatic, and marine wildlife.
Enviromental Science^Field Ornithology Field Ornithology ESRM 452 Field Ornithology (3) NW J. MARZLUFFStudents learn field identification skills and are introduced to field methodologies through required indoor labs, field trips, and field exercises. Exercises include study of survey techniques, feeding ecology, and behavior. Students are required to share field trip costs.
Enviromental Science^Wildlife Seminar Wildlife Seminar ESRM 455 Wildlife Seminar (1, max. 8) NWDiscussion of current research and application in wildlife biology and conservation. Offered: AWSp.
Enviromental Science^Biology and Conservation of Birds Biology and Conservation of Birds ESRM 456 Biology and Conservation of Birds (3) NW J. MARZLUFFMajor principles of natural history, avian reproductive biology, population ecology, and national and international conservation strategies for both hunted and unhunted birds. Emphasis on western United States.
Enviromental Science^Fish and Wildlife Toxicology Fish and Wildlife Toxicology ESRM 457 Fish and Wildlife Toxicology (3/5) NWOverview of fish/wildlife toxicology: history of the field; regulations; methods used to assess risks contaminants pose to fish/wildlife; classes of contaminants and their direct, sublethal and indirect effects; and contemporary threats of contaminants to fish/wildlife, their habitats and prey. Includes laboratory. Offered: jointly with FISH 455; W.
Enviromental Science^Management of Endangered, Threatened, and Sensitive Species Management of Endangered, Threatened, and Sensitive Species ESRM 458 Management of Endangered, Threatened, and Sensitive Species (5) NW J. MARZLUFFBiological underpinnings and political realities of endangered species management, including: legal issues, recovery teams, citizen rights, extinction, rarity, proactive management, captive propagation, reintroduction, species endangered in the Pacific Northwest. Students revise endangered species recovery plans. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Wildlife Conservation in Northwest Ecosystems Wildlife Conservation in Northwest Ecosystems ESRM 459 Wildlife Conservation in Northwest Ecosystems (3) NW J. MARZLUFF, A. WIRSINGExtended field course offers wildlife science students personal interactions with wildlife managers and wildlife populations in strategic public and private lands in the northwestern United States and southern Canada. Students share costs of trip. Offered when there is sufficient student demand.
Enviromental Science^Forest Management and Economics Forest Management and Economics ESRM 461 Forest Management and Economics (5) I&S/NWPresents important contemporary decision tools, especially how they are used by forest managers to interpret, critique, and develop their basic applications in forestry. Topics include optimization techniques, including linear and nonlinear programming, concepts in interest and time evaluation of alternatives, marginal cost analysis, and computer spreadsheet assisted analysis.
Enviromental Science^Restoration Ecology Capstone: Introduction Restoration Ecology Capstone: Introduction ESRM 462 Restoration Ecology Capstone: Introduction (2-) NWFirst of a three-course capstone sequence in restoration ecology. Students review and assess project plans and installations. Class meets with members of previous capstone classes to review their projects. Offered: jointly with BES 462/TESC 462.
Enviromental Science^Restoration Ecology Capstone: Proposal and Plan Restoration Ecology Capstone: Proposal and Plan ESRM 463 Restoration Ecology Capstone: Proposal and Plan (-3-) NWStudent teams prepare proposals in response to requests for proposals (RFPs) from actual clients. Clients may be governments, non-profit organizations, and others. Upon acceptance of the proposal, teams prepare restoration plans.
Enviromental Science^Restoration Ecology Capstone: Field Site Restoration Restoration Ecology Capstone: Field Site Restoration ESRM 464 Restoration Ecology Capstone: Field Site Restoration (-5) NWTeams take a restoration plan developed in ESRM 463 and complete the installation. Team participation may include supervision of volunteers. Teams prepare management guidelines for the client and conduct a training class for their use.
Enviromental Science^Economics of Conservation Economics of Conservation ESRM 465 Economics of Conservation (3) I&S/NW J. PEREZ-GARCIAEconomic principles and their use in the analysis of contemporary conservation problems. Particular emphasis directed toward the conservation of forest resources in the Pacific Northwest and related policy issues. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Forest Operations Forest Operations ESRM 468 Forest Operations (5)Examines forest land surveying, low volume road access planning, and timber harvesting concepts. Low volume road design principles and practical application of field road location. Overview of road drainage design, construction techniques and maintenance. Reviews basic harvest systems and setting design processes, including cost, production control, environmental and safety considerations.
Enviromental Science^Natural Resource Policy and Planning Natural Resource Policy and Planning ESRM 470 Natural Resource Policy and Planning (5) I&S/NWIntroduction to and analysis of environmental policy-making processes, with a focus on forest and land policy and law. Use of policy models to examine the interaction of agencies, interest groups, Congress, and the courts in the legislative process. Policy implementation, evaluation, and change are also addressed. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Restoration in North America Restoration in North America ESRM 473 Restoration in North America (5) NW K. EWINGInvestigates the vegetation and climate of North American ecosystems. Includes an ecosystem by ecosystem review of how restoration is done in each system, including some tropical ecosystems. Offered: W.
Enviromental Science^Restoration Problem Solving: Ecological Engineering Restoration Problem Solving: Ecological Engineering ESRM 474 Restoration Problem Solving: Ecological Engineering (5) J. FRIDLEYExposes students to real-life problem solving that involves the design and manipulation of natural systems to perform ecological function. Focuses on the analysis, design, and implementation of discrete projects. Includes projects dealing with plants, hydrology, earthwork, waste and pollution management, as well as other resources and problems. Offered: A.
Enviromental Science^Plant Ecophysiology Plant Ecophysiology ESRM 478 Plant Ecophysiology (5) NW S. KIMExplores physiological mechanisms that underlie ecological observations, including how above- and below-ground microclimates develop and affect plant physiological processes. Discusses acclimation to environmental change along with species differences in physiological processes and plant's occupation of heterogeneous environments. Laboratories emphasize field measurement techniques.
Enviromental Science^Restoration Design Restoration Design ESRM 479 Restoration Design (5) I&S/NW K. EWING, J. FRIDLEYCovers the design process in ecosystem restoration by presenting a series of weekly design problems that students solve as teams. Categorizes problems by disturbance type, including restoration necessitated by agriculture, urbanization, salt-marsh filling or diking, construction of transport corridors, etc. Includes a team design portfolio. Offered: Sp.
Enviromental Science^Landscape Plant Science and Sustainable Management Landscape Plant Science and Sustainable Management ESRM 480 Landscape Plant Science and Sustainable Management (5) NW S. KIMPrinciples and practices of plant management in urban and modified landscapes. Physiological basis for plant management and selection; site analysis and preparation; plant installation and aftercare; plant performance evaluation; long-term sustainable management and plant health care. Offered: A, even years.
Enviromental Science^Foreign Study Foreign Study ESRM 489 Foreign Study (1-5, max. 15)Individual foreign study of topics for which there is not sufficient demand to warrant the organization of regular classes. Offered: AWSpS.
Enviromental Science^Special Topics Special Topics ESRM 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15)Individual tutorial study of topics or courses under development to address the latest scientific developments in forest resources. Offered: AWSpS.
Enviromental Science^Field Studies Field Studies ESRM 491 Field Studies (1-5, max. 10)Independent field study or one time organized field courses with emphasis outside the traditional classroom. Offered: AWSpS.
Enviromental Science^Senior Capstone Proposal Senior Capstone Proposal ESRM 494 Senior Capstone Proposal (5-)Selection of a capstone topic and type, either thesis or project. Students select a faculty adviser to assist them in the proposal writing process. Regular or Honors credit.
Enviromental Science^Senior Project Senior Project ESRM 495 Senior Project (-5)Individual study of an environmental science and resource management problem under direction of a faculty member. Requires a written project report. Generally taken in last year of residence.
Enviromental Science^Senior Thesis Senior Thesis ESRM 496 Senior Thesis (-5)Statistical analysis and presentation of research results and discussion of results in a thesis paper. Students work with faculty advisers to complete field or laboratory research and then prepare the senior thesis.
Architecture^Introduction to Architecture Study Introduction to Architecture Study ARCH 100 Introduction to Architecture Study (8) VLPAIntroduces design studio instruction to students contemplating architecture as a field of study or career. Studio projects, informed by workshops, lectures, readings, field trips, and in-studio critiques introduce the history, theory, and practice of architecture. Includes instruction in basic design drawing and model making. Offered: S.
Architecture^Appreciation of Architecture I Appreciation of Architecture I ARCH 150 Appreciation of Architecture I (2/3) VLPAHistorical survey of the architecture of Western civilization. For nonmajors.
Architecture^Appreciation of Architecture II Appreciation of Architecture II ARCH 151 Appreciation of Architecture II (2/3) VLPAHistorical survey of the architecture of Western civilization. For nonmajors.
Architecture^Architectural Design and Representation I Architectural Design and Representation I ARCH 200 Architectural Design and Representation I (5) VLPAIntroduces architectural representation as fundamental medium for investigation, analysis, and documentation of objects, processes, and architectural space. Consists of a series of investigative projects that introduce orthographic projection, axonometric, and perspective drawing, through which students develop comprehensive skills in hand-drawing and digital media. Offered: A.
Architecture^Architectural Design and Representation II Architectural Design and Representation II ARCH 201 Architectural Design and Representation II (5) VLPAIntroduces the fundamentals of architectural design. Consists of a series of investigative projects that introduce principles of architectural design as well as concepts and skills in architectural and digital representation.
Architecture^Making and Craft Making and Craft ARCH 231 Making and Craft (5) VLPAIntroduces the cultures and practical realities of "making" through study of the nature of tools, techniques, and the development of built culture over time. Examines the relationships of "making" to available materials, sources of energy and the development of infrastructure. Also covers qualities and characteristics of materials.
Architecture^World Architecture Non-Western Cultures World Architecture Non-Western Cultures ARCH 251 World Architecture Non-Western Cultures (5) VLPA/I&S PrakashIntroduction to historical and contemporary built environments of non-Judeo-Christian civilizations, primarily Hindu, Buddhist, Islamic, and Meso-American, as manifestations of cultural history and as responses to environmental determinants.
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Design I Introduction to Architectural Design I ARCH 300 Introduction to Architectural Design I (6)Studio problems to develop awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in the synthesis of building form.
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Design II Introduction to Architectural Design II ARCH 301 Introduction to Architectural Design II (6)Studio problems to develop awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in the synthesis of building form.
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Design III Introduction to Architectural Design III ARCH 302 Introduction to Architectural Design III (6)Studio problems to develop awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in the synthesis of building form.
Architecture^Introduction to Design Studio I Introduction to Design Studio I ARCH 303 Introduction to Design Studio I (6)Studio problems to develop initial awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in synthesis of building form and integrative aspects of architectural design with emphasis on the dwelling place. Limited to students entering the graduate program in architecture with baccalaureate degrees in other fields. Offered: A.
Architecture^Introduction to Design Studio II Introduction to Design Studio II ARCH 304 Introduction to Design Studio II (6)Studio problems to develop initial awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in synthesis of building form and integrative aspects of architectural design with emphasis on the dwelling place. Limited to students entering the graduate program in architecture with baccalaureate degrees in other fields.
Architecture^Introduction to Design Studio III Introduction to Design Studio III ARCH 305 Introduction to Design Studio III (6)Studio problems to develop initial awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in synthesis of building form and integrative aspects of architectural design with emphasis on the dwelling place. Limited to students entering the graduate program in architecture with baccalaureate degrees in other fields.
Architecture^Architectural Design Drawing I Architectural Design Drawing I ARCH 310 Architectural Design Drawing I (3)Lectures, demonstrations, and exercises to develop skill in graphic visualization and representation as used in architecture. Concepts, conventions, and techniques of both freehand and technical drawing are used as a vital means to imagine, develop, and represent design ideas. Course material coordinated with ARCH 303 studio to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Offered: A.
Architecture^Architectural Design Drawing II Architectural Design Drawing II ARCH 311 Architectural Design Drawing II (3)Lectures, demonstrations, and exercises to develop skill in graphic visualization and representation as used in architecture. Concepts, conventions, and techniques of both freehand and technical drawing are used as a vital means to imagine, develop, and represent design ideas. Course material coordinated with ARCH 304 studio to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Offered: W.
Architecture^Architectural Design Drawing III Architectural Design Drawing III ARCH 312 Architectural Design Drawing III (3)Lectures, demonstrations, and exercises to develop skill in graphic visualization and representation as used in architecture. Concepts, conventions, and techniques of both freehand and technical drawing are used as a vital means to imagine, develop, and represent design ideas. Course material coordinated with ARCH 305 studio to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Design Drawing Design Drawing ARCH 315 Design Drawing (2)Projects, lectures, demonstrations, and exercises coordinated with studio projects to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Lessons in diagramming of design concepts and planning and presenting design solutions.
Architecture^Introduction to Structures I Introduction to Structures I ARCH 320 Introduction to Structures I (3)Static - Force analysis; the study of external forces and force systems and their analytical solutions as applied to bodies at rest (equilibrium). Topic areas include beams, trusses, determinate frames, and load tracing. Offered: A.
Architecture^Introduction to Structures II Introduction to Structures II ARCH 321 Introduction to Structures II (3)Strength of materials; the study of the properties of materials and cross-sectional shapes of structural elements with respect to their effectiveness in resisting stresses. Topic areas include stress and strain, section properties, analysis and design of beams and columns.
Architecture^Introduction to Structures III Introduction to Structures III ARCH 322 Introduction to Structures III (3)Elementary structural design; synthesis of the previous structures coursework with applications to design of determinate timber and steel structures. Examination of forces on buildings: snow, live loads, wind, and earthquake. An introduction to concept of continuity.
Architecture^Structures I Structures I ARCH 323 Structures I (3) K. SIMONENCovers the design of building structures utilizing the fundamental principles of statics and mechanics of materials. Includes the behavior of beams, trusses, arches, and frames; the structural performance of wood, steel, and concrete; and designing for gravity and lateral loads. First of a two-course sequence. Offered: W.
Architecture^Structures II Structures II ARCH 324 Structures II (3) K. SIMONENCovers the design of building structures utilizing the fundamental principles of statics and mechanics of materials. Includes the behavior of beams, trusses, arches, and frames; the structural performance of wood, steel, and concrete; and designing for gravity and lateral loads. Second of a two-course sequence.
Architecture^Energy and Building Energy and Building ARCH 331 Energy and Building (3-5) NWDescribes principles and applications of climate, energy use, and comfort as determinants of architectural form; architectural methods for climate adaptation using non-mechanical means of ventilating, cooling, heating, and lighting; and design and performance predictions for passive approaches to solar heating, heat transfer mechanisms, and strategies for climate- responsive design. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Making and Materials Making and Materials ARCH 332 Making and Materials (3-5) VLPAIntroduces the cultures and realities of making and materials through the study of how tools, materials, and cultures interact to produce our built environment at all scales. Includes substantial hands-on physical interactions with real tools and materials.
Architecture^Architecture of the Ancient World Architecture of the Ancient World ARCH 350 Architecture of the Ancient World (3/5) VLPAArchitectural history in the Western world from beginnings to AD 550. Offered: A.
Architecture^Romanesque, Gothic, and Renaissance Architecture Romanesque, Gothic, and Renaissance Architecture ARCH 351 Romanesque, Gothic, and Renaissance Architecture (3/5) VLPAArchitectural history in the Western world from AD 550 to 1750. Offered: W.
Architecture^History of Modern Architecture History of Modern Architecture ARCH 352 History of Modern Architecture (3/5) VLPA OchsnerArchitectural history in the Western world from 1750 to the present. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Theory Introduction to Architectural Theory ARCH 360 Introduction to Architectural Theory (3)Function of architectural theory in comprehending and ordering various human purposes in architecture, types of architectural purpose, and types of theories. Current concerns. Offered: W.
Architecture^Architecture Colloquium Architecture Colloquium ARCH 361 Architecture Colloquium (5)Introduces a wide range of perspectives on architecture, with an emphasis on history and theory, making and materials, and sustainable technologies. Emphasizes the skills of reading, analysis, communication, and writing in the discipline of architecture. Offered: A.
Architecture^Architecture and Theory Architecture and Theory ARCH 362 Architecture and Theory (3-5)Introduces a wide range of modern and contemporary theoretical movements in architecture. Emphasizes the basic skills of reading, critical inquiry, and communication. Offered: W.
Architecture^Computers in Architecture Computers in Architecture ARCH 380 Computers in Architecture (3)Laboratories, lecture, and demonstrations to introduce computing in environmental design and planning. Offered: ASp.
Architecture^Architectural Design IV Architectural Design IV ARCH 400 Architectural Design IV (6)Offers studio problems in non-residential building design to advance the student's understanding of the ideas and technologies of architecture.
Architecture^Architectural Design V Architectural Design V ARCH 401 Architectural Design V (6)Offers studio problems in non-residential building design to advance the student's understanding of the ideas and technologies of architecture.
Architecture^Architectural Design VI Architectural Design VI ARCH 402 Architectural Design VI (6)Offers studio problems in non-residential building design to advance the student's understanding of the ideas and technologies of architecture.
Architecture^Architectural Problems Architectural Problems ARCH 403 Architectural Problems (6)Offered: S.
Architecture^Integrated Design/Build Studio Integrated Design/Build Studio ARCH 404 Integrated Design/Build Studio (6) C. DOSSICKStudy of the design/build process with emphasis on the synthesis of design and construction considerations. Focuses on developing design and construction concepts to meet program requirements specified in case studies. Offered: jointly with CM 404; W.
Architecture^Introduction to Architectural Photography Introduction to Architectural Photography ARCH 410 Introduction to Architectural Photography (3/5) VLPABasic elements and processes of architectural photography to include camera controls, exposure technique, photo processing, and fundamental principles of photographing architecture. Student must provide own 35 mm (or larger) camera with manual operating controls.
Architecture^Architectural Photography Projects Architectural Photography Projects ARCH 413 Architectural Photography Projects (3)Students develop in-depth photo essays relating to architecture, the urban movement, or landscape design. Lectures, seminar, and discussion.
Architecture^Architectural Sketching Architectural Sketching ARCH 415 Architectural Sketching (3)Exercises in freehand representational drawing using charcoal, graphite, and conte crayon with emphasis on line, proportion, values, and composition. Studies progress from geometric to nongeometric forms.
Architecture^Watercolor Drawing Watercolor Drawing ARCH 418 Watercolor Drawing (3)Introduction to the principles and practice of using transparent watercolor for the naturalistic representation of objects, people, and interior and exterior space.
Architecture^Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture ARCH 425 Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture (3)Explores use of life cycle assessment data and methods within design and construction practices to understand and reduce the environmental impact of buildings.
Architecture^Structural Unit Masonry Structural Unit Masonry ARCH 426 Structural Unit Masonry (3) TawreseyStructural behavior and design of reinforced brick, tile, and unit concrete masonry structures.
Architecture^Materials and Processes Materials and Processes ARCH 430 Materials and Processes (3)Lectures, field trips, and laboratory sessions directed toward the nature, potentials, and limitations of a variety of materials (wood, metal, plastics, inorganic cementing materials, minerals, rocks, and clay) and the processes involved with their production, fabrication, and system compatibility.
Architecture^Environmental Control Principles Environmental Control Principles ARCH 431 Environmental Control Principles (3)Daylighting of buildings, reducing noise and enhancing sound for communication, and regulating heat transfer for occupant thermal comfort; description of passive means for environmental control, including presentation of scientific explanations and design guidelines for utilizing these means; design guidelines are intended for use in the preliminary schematic design phase. Offered: AW.
Architecture^Color and Light Color and Light ARCH 434 Color and Light (3)Lectures, demonstrations, exercises, and projects focusing on the use of color applied to the three-dimensional architectural context. Explores color theory with the multiple effects of changing light.
Architecture^Principles and Practices of Environmental Lighting Principles and Practices of Environmental Lighting ARCH 435 Principles and Practices of Environmental Lighting (3)Perception-based approach to principles of natural and artificial lighting. Practical considerations of lighting involving environmental evaluations, calculations, and the use of lamps and fixtures. Sketch and model studies for applications. Impact of lighting design on energy conservation. Relation of lighting design process to architectural design concepts.
Architecture^Building Acoustics Building Acoustics ARCH 436 Building Acoustics (3) NWDescription of principles and practices for manipulating and enhancing sound in buildings. Information about sound behavior and the organization of architectural elements (deployment of design features, including various geometries and materials) for the control of sound in enclosed spaces and between adjacent spaces.
Architecture^Architectural Lighting Design Architectural Lighting Design ARCH 439 Architectural Lighting Design (3)Concentrates on the use of electric lighting and its effective integration in architecture and the built environment. Includes site visits, demonstrations, lectures, and projects.
Architecture^Visions of the Japanese House Visions of the Japanese House ARCH 441 Visions of the Japanese House (3) OshimaExplores the origins, derivations, and permutations of the "Japanese house." Outlines underlying principles and paradigms of Japanese domesticity through history and traces its evolution through aspects ranging from the house's expression in media to its constructional materiality. Offered: A.
Architecture^Africa and Middle East Seminar Africa and Middle East Seminar ARCH 442 Africa and Middle East Seminar (3) VLPA McLarenAdvanced introduction to colonial and postcolonial architecture in Africa and the Middle East, beginning with the initial European colonization in the mid-nineteenth century. Provides a historical understanding of the formation of distinctive regional and/or national identities in the architecture of these regions. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^South Asian Architecture I South Asian Architecture I ARCH 445 South Asian Architecture I (3) VLPA PrakashAdvanced introduction to precolonial architecture and urbanism of South Asia. Using methodologies of culture studies, examines select Hindu, Buddhist, and Islamic case studies on a comparative genealogy.
Architecture^South Asian Architecture II South Asian Architecture II ARCH 446 South Asian Architecture II (3) VLPA PrakashAdvanced introduction to colonial and postcolonial architecture and urbanism of South Asia. Using methodologies of culture studies, covers 1800 to present, emphasizing the years since India's independence in 1947.
Architecture^History of Architecture in Seattle and Environs History of Architecture in Seattle and Environs ARCH 452 History of Architecture in Seattle and Environs (3) I&S OchsnerHistorical development of architecture in Seattle and surrounding areas from the nineteenth century to the present, also touching on issues of urban design and historic preservation.
Architecture^Japanese Architecture Japanese Architecture ARCH 453 Japanese Architecture (3) VLPASurvey of Japanese architecture from its origins to modern times. Although Shinto architecture, tea houses, gardens, and modern developments are discussed, the primary focus is on the development of Japanese Buddhist architecture. Offered: jointly with ART H 419.
Architecture^American Architecture American Architecture ARCH 455 American Architecture (3)American architecture from indigenous Native American traditions to the present. Offered: jointly with ART H 488.
Architecture^Nineteenth-Century Architecture Nineteenth-Century Architecture ARCH 456 Nineteenth-Century Architecture (3) VLPAFrom late eighteenth century French rationalists, Neoclassicists, to fin de siecle Vienna and Paris. Includes theorists such as Ruskin, Viollet-le-Duc, and Semper; major movements, such as the Arts and Crafts, and the French Ecole des Beaux-Arts method of design. Offered: jointly with ART H 490.
Architecture^Twentieth-Century Architecture Twentieth-Century Architecture ARCH 457 Twentieth-Century Architecture (3) VLPAArchitecture in the twentieth century, mainly in Europe and the United States. Traces roots of Modernism in Europe in the 1920s, its demise (largely in the United States) in the 1960s, and recent trends such as Post-Modernism and Deconstructivism. Offered: jointly with ART H 491.
Architecture^Paris: Architecture and Urbanism Paris: Architecture and Urbanism ARCH 458 Paris: Architecture and Urbanism (3/5) VLPA/I&SSpans the architectural history of Paris, from its Gallic, pre-Roman origins in the second century BCE through the work of twenty-first century architects. Focuses on changing patterns of the physical fabric of the city and its buildings, as seen within the context of the broader political, social, economic, and cultural history. Offered: jointly with ART H 494/JSIS A 433.
Architecture^Architecture Since 1945 Architecture Since 1945 ARCH 459 Architecture Since 1945 (3) VLPATheories and forms in architecture from the end of World War II to present. Includes new wave Japanese architects, recent Native American developments, and non-Western as well as Western trends. Offered: jointly with ART H 493.
Architecture^Design Theory and Analysis Design Theory and Analysis ARCH 460 Design Theory and Analysis (3) VLPA/I&SProblematical nature of philosophies of architecture; interaction of philosophical concepts and architectural form and expression. Fundamentals of architectural criticism.
Architecture^Spatial Composition in Architecture Spatial Composition in Architecture ARCH 462 Spatial Composition in Architecture (3)Advanced introduction to compositional strategies in architecture. Drawing on a historical survey of the development of Western architecture, the seminar investigates different compositional strategies and their relationship to cultural values and systems of meaning. Intended as complement to the design studio.
Architecture^Gender and Architecture Gender and Architecture ARCH 466 Gender and Architecture (3) VLPA/I&SExamines gender in the experience, practice, and theory of architecture and urban space with a focus on modern typologies: skyscraper, home, convent, bachelor pad, street, and closet. Draws from architectural and art history, social studies, design practice and theory, comparative literature, film studies, and queer theory. Offered: jointly with GWSS 466.
Architecture^Architecture Capstone Preparation Architecture Capstone Preparation ARCH 468 Architecture Capstone Preparation (3)Preparation for the Architecture major capstone project. Offered: W.
Architecture^Architecture Capstone Architecture Capstone ARCH 469 Architecture Capstone (6)Development of the capstone project for the Architecture major. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Residential Architectural Practice Residential Architectural Practice ARCH 475 Residential Architectural Practice (3)Lectures and exercises focused on the operation of a professional architectural practice specializing in residential and smaller-scale projects. Topics include: clients and program development, design strategies and space planning, site considerations, regulatory constraints, consultants, contractors, specialized construction methodology, and issues, ethics, and liability specific to residential project delivery.
Architecture^CAD and Working Drawings CAD and Working Drawings ARCH 478 CAD and Working Drawings (4)Intensive introduction to computer-aided design systems for developing construction documentation (working drawings). Lectures and exercises focus on learning the methodology for using CAD to efficiently prepare working drawings, as well as discussions regarding industry-recognized standards and current technology used in the preparation of documentation.
Architecture^3D Modeling and Rendering 3D Modeling and Rendering ARCH 481 3D Modeling and Rendering (3)Lectures and weekly exercises focus on understanding and applying the underlying principles of 3D computer graphics and rendering software. Topics include user-interface, data creation and modeling, lighting models, smoothing, texture mapping, ray tracing, radiosity, animation, and solid modeling.
Architecture^Web Weaving Web Weaving ARCH 482 Web Weaving (3) VLPA B. JohnsonExamines the function, limitations, and uses of primary web technologies and fundamental website design and implementation. Participants develop hands-on design/build expertise for website design, implementation, and maintenance, using readily available tools and techniques. Looks beyond today and explores emerging Internet technologies. Offered: A.
Architecture^Design of Virtual Environments Design of Virtual Environments ARCH 483 Design of Virtual Environments (3)Explores through a blend of technical exercises constructing computational artifacts, readings, and discussions of relevant literature, the possibilities of online virtual environments. Incorporates a term project or paper based on exercises and readings. Offered: W.
Architecture^Design Computing Seminar Design Computing Seminar ARCH 484 Design Computing Seminar (3)Weekly colloquium and discussion forum. Discusses design computing research and report on ongoing project progress, with demonstrations and guest speakers. Explores design computing, design thinking and design process, and inventing new computer-aided tools for design. Offered: W.
Architecture^Algorithmic Geometry in Architectural Design Algorithmic Geometry in Architectural Design ARCH 486 Algorithmic Geometry in Architectural Design (3)Introduction to design and implementation of parametric modeling of algorithmically generated geometries using computational elements and real-time computation. Introduces concepts related to computer programming, computational geometry, and 3D modeling with weekly exercises using 2D and 3D computer modeling frameworks, plus a term project. Requires significant amount of hands-on work.
Architecture^Fundamentals of Building Information Modeling Fundamentals of Building Information Modeling ARCH 487 Fundamentals of Building Information Modeling (3)Introduces students to building information modeling and associated software tools. Students learn the fundamentals of working with BIM software by developing a project using both 3D parametric modeling and the 2D documentation skills essential to communicating ideas effectively in professional practice.
Architecture^Simulation Based Design Simulation Based Design ARCH 489 Simulation Based Design (3)Focuses on computational simulation tools and techniques to evaluate the performance of a design or design alternatives, starting at earliest conceptual design phases to help architects make informed design decisions. Topics include solar, lighting, thermal, and acoustical analysis techniques and their applications.
Architecture^Architectural Studies Abroad - Special Topics Architectural Studies Abroad - Special Topics ARCH 490 Architectural Studies Abroad - Special Topics (*, max. 24)Department-approved, systematic study offered as part of architectural study abroad programs.
Architecture^Architectural Studies Abroad - Representation Architectural Studies Abroad - Representation ARCH 491 Architectural Studies Abroad - Representation (1-6, max. 12) VLPAArchitectural sketching, drawing, modeling, and other presentation techniques in contexts outside the United States.
Architecture^Architectural Studies Abroad - Culture Architectural Studies Abroad - Culture ARCH 494 Architectural Studies Abroad - Culture (1-6, max. 12) VLPAStudies of language, art, food, music, and other activities that influence architectural and urban form in contexts outside the United States.
Architecture^Architectural Studies Abroad - History and Theory Architectural Studies Abroad - History and Theory ARCH 495 Architectural Studies Abroad - History and Theory (1-6, max. 12) VLPA/I&SExamines history and theory of architecture in study abroad programs.
Architecture^Architectural Studies Abroad - Urban Fieldwork Architectural Studies Abroad - Urban Fieldwork ARCH 496 Architectural Studies Abroad - Urban Fieldwork (1-6, max. 12)Analysis and interpretation of urban form and architectural contexts through direct observation in locations outside the United States.
Architecture^Architectural Studies Abroad - International Practice Architectural Studies Abroad - International Practice ARCH 497 Architectural Studies Abroad - International Practice (1-6, max. 12)Observation and evaluation of architectural practices in contexts outside the United States through firm visits and guest presentations.
Architecture^Special Projects Special Projects ARCH 498 Special Projects (1-12, max. 12)Instructor-initiated and department-approved systematic study and offering of specialized subject matter. Topics vary and are announced in preceding quarter.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio I Architectural Design Studio I ARCH 500 Architectural Design Studio I (6)Architectural design, with emphasis on development of professional skills in design synthesis; specifically the design of institutional buildings in response to a context significant for historical and urban characteristics. Analysis includes programming, typology, site and place, and influence of regulatory measures on building form. Concurrent with ARCH 590. Offered: A.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio II Architectural Design Studio II ARCH 501 Architectural Design Studio II (6)Architectural design, with emphasis on development of professional skills in design synthesis, specifically the unique qualities of materials, construction technology, and assembly details in the expression of architectural ideas. Analysis includes the influence of regulatory measures on building form. Concurrent with ARCH 570. Offered: W.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio III Architectural Design Studio III ARCH 502 Architectural Design Studio III (6)Architectural design, with emphasis on development of professional skills in design synthesis, specifically the comprehensive integration of building systems within an ordered design concept. Analysis includes the planning and integration of structural systems, building service systems, and building envelope design as an appropriate architectural expression. Concurrent with ARCH 591. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio Options Architectural Design Studio Options ARCH 503 Architectural Design Studio Options (6)Advanced architectural studios in general architectural design, in special projects examining particular architectural determinants, and in architectural research. Focus and format vary with instructor.
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio Options Architectural Design Studio Options ARCH 504 Architectural Design Studio Options (6)Advanced architectural studios in general architectural design, in special projects examining particular architectural determinants, and in architectural research. Focus and format vary with instructor.
Architecture^Advanced Architectural Studies Advanced Architectural Studies ARCH 506 Advanced Architectural Studies (6)Advanced experimental studies dealing with significant architectural relationships that involve scholarly investigation, development, and presentation of results. Offered: S.
Architecture^Structural System Design Structural System Design ARCH 521 Structural System Design (3) SimonenStudies structural configuration and system selection for building design. Focuses on developing an understanding of structural material, element and system performance, and an ability to integrate structure and architecture to create efficient and elegant design solutions. Offered: A.
Architecture^Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture ARCH 525 Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture (3)Explores use of life cycle assessment data and methods within design and construction practices to understand and reduce the environmental impact of buildings.
Architecture^Introduction to Digital Design and Fabrication Introduction to Digital Design and Fabrication ARCH 527 Introduction to Digital Design and Fabrication (3)Offers an introduction to digital design and manufacturing technologies, with an emphasis on developing appropriate strategies for their use in design and architecture. Students learn to use digital design software and digitally enhanced fabrication tools to support their design strategies. Offered: AW.
Architecture^Digital Design for Fabrication and Construction Digital Design for Fabrication and Construction ARCH 528 Digital Design for Fabrication and Construction (3)Explores the rapid integration of fabrication, construction, and performance criteria early in the architectural design process, through the use of powerful digital tools. Students test advanced digital tools in architectural production and develop awareness and skills in integrated digital design, analysis, and prototyping. Offered: W.
Architecture^Advanced Digital Projects Advanced Digital Projects ARCH 529 Advanced Digital Projects (3)Advanced topics for students who have completed one or more design computing courses and wish to develop a project further.
Architecture^Integrated Building Systems Integrated Building Systems ARCH 530 Integrated Building Systems (3) MillerDiscusses strategies for ordering separate and discreet building systems into integrated architectural schemes. Focuses on systems that affect architectural expression and resolution in buildings including: structural, environmental control, materials, and assembly with an emphasis on sustainable building design. Concurrent with ARCH 502. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Active Control Systems for Building Operation Active Control Systems for Building Operation ARCH 531 Active Control Systems for Building Operation (3) NW HeerwagenElectrical, mechanical (HVAC), plumbing, and fire safety systems for buildings. Descriptions of what these systems do, where they are used, how they are integrated into the overall building design; rules of thumb, design strategies, and short cuts for anticipating system design and use.
Architecture^Construction Materials and Assemblies II Construction Materials and Assemblies II ARCH 532 Construction Materials and Assemblies II (3)Lectures and readings pertaining to a survey of materials, assemblies, and techniques of assembly of concrete and steel frame, commercial exterior envelope, and interior partitioning building construction systems.
Architecture^Advanced Environmental Systems Advanced Environmental Systems ARCH 533 Advanced Environmental Systems (3)Focuses on computational simulation tools and techniques to evaluate the performance of a design or design alternatives, starting at earliest conceptual design phases to help architects make informed design decisions. Topics include solar, lighting, thermal, and acoustical analysis techniques and their applications. Offered: WSp.
Architecture^Green Technology Green Technology ARCH 534 Green Technology (3) HeerwagenExamination and application of various resource-conserving building technologies, particularly within the context of the LEED Rating System. Principles and practices associated with the inclusion of these technologies in buildings.
Architecture^Daylighting Design Seminar Daylighting Design Seminar ARCH 535 Daylighting Design Seminar (3)Focuses on theoretical and applied daylighting principles in conjunction with physical and digital analytical tools. Includes field assessment of constructed buildings and individual projects involving research and design for lighting and daylighting.
Architecture^Designing with Living Systems Designing with Living Systems ARCH 536 Designing with Living Systems (3)Investigates an integrated approach to urban agriculture and building systems; looks at cyclical ecosystems intrinsically interconnected with buildings, urban infrastructure, and the constructed environment; establishes a thorough understanding of these productive, living systems, which are indispensable for architects and landscape architects in their pursuit of more sustainable design practices.
Architecture^Traditional Building Methods: New Adaptations Traditional Building Methods: New Adaptations ARCH 537 Traditional Building Methods: New Adaptations (3)Explores recent developments in traditional building techniques, a resurgence of interest in handmade buildings, and the use of local materials in building construction. Also examines why these materials and methods are becoming critical to communities around the world, and how they can be optimized to meet twenty-first century requirements.
Architecture^Building Reuse Seminar: Investigating the Value of Existing Buildings Building Reuse Seminar: Investigating the Value of Existing Buildings ARCH 538 Building Reuse Seminar: Investigating the Value of Existing Buildings (3)Investigates the repurposing of buildings as a resource and energy conservation strategy and as an alternative to demolition of existing buildings; discusses case study strategies for sustainable retrofits. Students critically observe, record, and analyze structures and discuss building reuse design in the context of sustainable environments.
Architecture^Seminar in American Architecture Seminar in American Architecture ARCH 555 Seminar in American Architecture (5) ClausenTopics vary. Offered: jointly with ART H 592.
Architecture^The Arts and Crafts Movement and Its Legacies The Arts and Crafts Movement and Its Legacies ARCH 556 The Arts and Crafts Movement and Its Legacies (3) OchsnerHistorical development of the arts and crafts movement focusing primarily on its influence on American architecture from 1870 to the present.
Architecture^Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture ARCH 558 Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture (3/5)Specific focus changes from quarter to quarter.
Architecture^American Utilitarian Architecture American Utilitarian Architecture ARCH 559 American Utilitarian Architecture (3)Significant American environmental design efforts arising from utilitarian needs, e.g., factories, bridges, skyscrapers, and associated technical building innovations.
Architecture^Seminar on Architectural Theories Seminar on Architectural Theories ARCH 560 Seminar on Architectural Theories (3)Recent developments in architectural theory, urban design theory, criticism, and the methodology of criticism.
Architecture^Urban Design Theory Urban Design Theory ARCH 561 Urban Design Theory (3)Study of development of nineteenth- and twentieth-century urban design theories and parallel developments in architecture and urban planning. Theoretical premises are related to current practices of urban design in various sociopolitical contexts, European as well as American. Evolutionary nature of theory emphasized.
Architecture^Seminar in Architecture and Cultural Theory Seminar in Architecture and Cultural Theory ARCH 563 Seminar in Architecture and Cultural Theory (3)Study of contemporary cultural studies and postcolonial writings in terms of their impact on architectural theory and practice. Topical seminar based on reading and individual research.
Architecture^Environmental Design and Well-Being Environmental Design and Well-Being ARCH 564 Environmental Design and Well-Being (3)Analyzes how environmental design can promote well-being in natural systems and human life worlds. Explores current knowledge about climate change and organism-environment dynamics, theories of health and complexity, ideological barriers and the power of images, new materials, and "high-tech"/"low-tech" alternatives for ecological design and planning.
Architecture^Qualitative Research Methods Qualitative Research Methods ARCH 567 Qualitative Research Methods (3)Qualitative research methods covering both the theoretical foundations and practical methodologies of traditional and innovative approaches, including cognitive mapping, open-ended interviews, ethnographic observation, hermeneutics, phenomenology, critical theory, communicative action, grass-roots empowerment, post-structuralism, and self organization. Offered: jointly with URBDP 519.
Architecture^Design Development Design Development ARCH 570 Design Development (3) MillerLectures and case studies emphasizing the design development phase of architectural practice. Concurrent with ARCH 501.
Architecture^Professional Practice Professional Practice ARCH 571 Professional Practice (4)Introduces the business and ethics of architectural design and building construction, while helping students explore their professional identities and make intentional choices about their career paths. Compares fundamentals of architectural practice against historical evolution of the field and speculation about its future. Offered: AW.
Architecture^Design and Construction Law Design and Construction Law ARCH 574 Design and Construction Law (3)Legal issues arising from design and construction services, focusing on risk management and liability awareness. Topical areas include basic legal doctrines, the design professional/client relationship, contractor selection, the construction process, and professional practice problems. Emphasis on Washington State law. Offered: jointly with CM 500; A.
Architecture^Case Studies in Contemporary Architectural Practice Case Studies in Contemporary Architectural Practice ARCH 578 Case Studies in Contemporary Architectural Practice (3)Presentations and discussions by local architectural firms examining the issues that influence building design and project delivery in contemporary architectural practice. Focuses on understanding the issues as opportunities rather than impediments to good design. Class visits a different architectural firm each week for an in-depth review of current projects.
Architecture^Technical Issues in Preservation Design Technical Issues in Preservation Design ARCH 579 Technical Issues in Preservation Design (3)Issues, practices, and procedures involved in preservation and reuse of old and historic buildings. Technical and esthetic means by which practicing professionals approach the analysis, interpretation, and resolution of problems such work raises. Emphasis on recent and local projects and related experiences.
Architecture^Advanced Rendering Advanced Rendering ARCH 581 Advanced Rendering (3)Provides an in-depth discussion and hands-on experience with technical and qualitative features of computer rendering. Students learn to generate digital images that can mimic the physical world and predict the final appearance of a design.
Architecture^Computational Lighting Design Computational Lighting Design ARCH 582 Computational Lighting Design (3)Addresses the recent developments in lighting simulation, visualization, and per-pixel measurement techniques. Provides an understanding of the theoretical aspects of computer applications in lighting design; and the practical knowledge of tools that enhance the integration of the lighting analysis into architectural design processes.
Architecture^Theory of Design Computing Theory of Design Computing ARCH 587 Theory of Design Computing (3)Examines the relationship between theory of design and computational tools for practice. Explores how the emergence of computers as a mainstream tool in design has already changed architectural practice. Discusses how, as with other technologies that revolutionized the practice of architecture, information technologies carry hidden implications about design process and products. Offered: A.
Architecture^Research Practice Research Practice ARCH 588 Research Practice (3)Provides the opportunity for a guided preliminary exploration and refinement of a research topic, prior to thesis proposal. Weekly seminar meetings focus on student work with regular presentations and discussions. Offered: W.
Architecture^Urban and Preservation Issues in Design Urban and Preservation Issues in Design ARCH 590 Urban and Preservation Issues in Design (3)Introduction to recent theory and practice in the fields of urban design and historic preservation primarily in North American urban contexts, including examples of recent projects presented by practicing professionals. Concurrent with ARCH 500.
Architecture^Architecture and Landscape Architecture and Landscape ARCH 591 Architecture and Landscape (3)Advanced introduction to the relationships between buildings and places in the landscape with an emphasis on Western concepts of nature. A taxonomy of place as nature is developed. Explores ways in which the architect can design places that landscape taxonomy. Concurrent with ARCH 502.
Architecture^Thesis Research and Preparation Thesis Research and Preparation ARCH 595 Thesis Research and Preparation (4)Develops skills for conducting master's thesis research, including writing a major portion of the thesis document. Engages students as a community of peers sharing ideas and resources for completing thesis work. Required for admission to the master's thesis design studio. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Fieldwork in Professional Practice Fieldwork in Professional Practice ARCH 596 Fieldwork in Professional Practice (*, max. 9)On-location study under the supervision of a practicing professional involved in an aspect of environmental design.
Architecture^Research Practicum Research Practicum ARCH 597 Research Practicum (5) Johnson, McLarenProvides a mentored research opportunity where students apply their research and writing skills and knowledge of methods and theory to an advanced research topic. Offered: Sp.
Architecture^Special Topics for Graduate Students Special Topics for Graduate Students ARCH 598 Special Topics for Graduate Students (1-6, max. 6)Systematic study and offering of specialized subject matter. Topics vary and are announced in the preceding quarter.
Architecture^Independent Thesis Research and Preparation Independent Thesis Research and Preparation ARCH 599 Independent Thesis Research and Preparation (4)Participants identify a master's thesis research area, articulate a specific question within the research area, find relevant literature and prepare an annotated bibliography, establish a research method and timetable, pursue preparatory research and analysis for the thesis project, and write, present, and defend a thesis proposal.
Civil Engineering^Twenty-First Century Civil and Environmental Engineering Twenty-First Century Civil and Environmental Engineering CEE 100 Twenty-First Century Civil and Environmental Engineering (1)Introduction to the modern discipline of civil and environmental engineering including major sub-disciplines, professional careers, projects, and departmental faculty. Explores the different disciplines and their relevance to today's students. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Mechanics of Materials Introduction to Mechanics of Materials CEE 220 Introduction to Mechanics of Materials (4) NW Berman, ReedIntroduction to the concepts of stress, deformation, and strain in solid materials. Development of basic relationships among loads, stresses, and deflections of structural and machine elements such as rods, shafts, and beams. Load-carrying capacity of these elements under tension, compression, torsion, bending, and shear forces.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Processes and flows Environmental Processes and flows CEE 250 Environmental Processes and flows (3) NW BrettIntroduces the concepts of environmental materials and energy balance within the context of Pacific Northwest case studies, in particular nutrient loading, eutrophication, hypoxia/fish kills, water treatment, and global climate change and its regional impacts on water resources and hydrologic cycles.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to AutoCAD for Civil Engineers Introduction to AutoCAD for Civil Engineers CEE 291 Introduction to AutoCAD for Civil Engineers (2) NWIntroduces engineering drafting and graphical communication. Application of drafting standards and structure, creating and modifying basic drawings in 2D and 3D drafting in AutoCAD. Introduction to reading plan sets and creating portions of plan sets applied to civil and environmental engineering fields. Offered: AWSpS.
Civil Engineering^Foreign Study Foreign Study CEE 297 Foreign Study (3-5, max. 15)For participants in approved foreign-study programs. May not be used to satisfy upper-division major requirements.
Civil Engineering^Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering CEE 298 Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering (1-5, max. 10)Explores special topics in civil and environmental engineering.
Civil Engineering^Independent Project Independent Project CEE 299 Independent Project (1-5, max. 10)Research on special topics under supervision of a faculty member. May not be used to satisfy upper-division major requirements. Offered: AWSpS.
Civil Engineering^Construction Engineering Construction Engineering CEE 307 Construction Engineering (5)Introduces construction engineering including construction methods, engineering economics, contracts, project delivery methods, plan and specifications, scheduling, estimating, productivity, environmental regulations, safety and green construction. Uses scheduling and estimating software tools and emphasizes communication engineering information. Offered: AW.
Civil Engineering^GeoSurveying GeoSurveying CEE 317 GeoSurveying (5)Covers measurement and digital mapping techniques; integration of surveying methods and techniques, monitoring of structures; spatial data collection and integration with surveying data; adjustment of measurements, concepts of error; surveying control; coordinate systems, transformation; highway vertical curves; and Earthwork, leveling and datum consideration, photogrammetry, GPS, GIS, remote sensing, cadastral and construction surveys, digital mapping and drafting.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Engineering Transportation Engineering CEE 327 Transportation Engineering (5)Studies vehicular transportation fundamentals including vehicle dynamics, geometric design, pavement design, traffic flow concepts, level of service analysis, intelligent transportation systems, travel demand prediction methods, freight logistics, and management of transportation systems. Includes a review of relevant vehicle operating characteristics.
Civil Engineering^Construction Materials Construction Materials CEE 337 Construction Materials (5)General treatment of physical and mechanical properties and engineering behavior of metallic and nonmetallic materials. Steel, aluminum, aggregates, portland cement concrete, bituminous materials, asphalt concrete, wood. Laboratory testing, instrumentation, and investigation into macro-behavior. Sustainability issues including recycling, energy requirements, and greenhouse gas production associated with the materials.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Fluid Mechanics Introduction to Fluid Mechanics CEE 347 Introduction to Fluid Mechanics (5) Horner-Devine, Lundquist, ThomsonIntroduces the mechanics of incompressible fluids and their applications. Hydrostatic pressure forces. Kinematics, potential flows, and the Bernoulli equation. Conservation of mass, momentum, and energy. Laminar and turbulent flows. Flow in pipes, pipe networks, and open channel flows.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Engineering Environmental Engineering CEE 357 Environmental Engineering (5)Describes water and air resources, parameters that characterize their quality, and how their use alters their properties. Elements of hydrology. Mass and energy balances as applied to environmental systems. Global environmental change. Basics of aquatic chemistry and microbiology applied to municipal water and wastewater treatment operation. Groundwater contamination and treatment.
Civil Engineering^Geotechnical Engineering Geotechnical Engineering CEE 367 Geotechnical Engineering (5) Arduino, Kramer, WartmanFundamental engineering properties of soil and rock; depositional processes and physical characteristics, hydro-conductive properties and advective flow; volume change characteristics including short- and long- term deformation; shear strength properties; and applications of basic concepts to practical problems such as foundation design and slope stability.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Structural Design Introduction to Structural Design CEE 377 Introduction to Structural Design (5) Berman, Eberhard, Reed, RoederIntroduces the concepts, approaches, procedures, and codes for the structural design. Characterization of structural loads. Structural systems and system behavior. Analysis of statically determinate structures and introduction to analysis of statically indeterminate structures including approximate methods. Introduction to the behavior and design of fundamental structural member. Prerequisite CEE 220. Offered: AW.
Civil Engineering^Infrastructure Construction Infrastructure Construction CEE 404 Infrastructure Construction (4) S. MUENCHBasic concepts of large transportation infrastructure construction projects including planning, scheduling, life-cycle cost analysis (LCCA), construction cost, logistics, productivity and, where applicable, traffic impacts. Uses current and prototype industry software. Term project is designed around a large-scale I-5 pavement reconstruction project involving construction, traffic, and the interaction between the two. Involves presentations on a number of local transportation infrastructure projects.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Rome: Study Abroad Engineering Rome: Study Abroad CEE 409 Engineering Rome: Study Abroad (5) MuenchCovers Roman civil engineering over 3,000 years from Ancient Rome to the present day. Introduces civil engineering topics reinforced by practical engineering calculations, local experts, and site visits. Provides international and historical perspective on engineering and the contributions of engineers to infrastructure and society.
Civil Engineering^Traffic Engineering Fundamentals Traffic Engineering Fundamentals CEE 410 Traffic Engineering Fundamentals (3)General review of the fundamentals of traffic engineering, including their relationship to transportation operations management and planning, with emphasis on calculations and procedures in the Highway Capacity Manual; field surveys and data analysis.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Data Management Transportation Data Management CEE 412 Transportation Data Management (3) WangIntroduction to modern concepts, theories, and tools for transportation data management and analysis. Applications of software tools for transportation data storage, information retrieval, knowledge discovery, data exchange, online information sharing, statistical analysis, system optimization, and decision support.
Civil Engineering^Urban Transportation Planning and Design Urban Transportation Planning and Design CEE 416 Urban Transportation Planning and Design (3)Brief review of major issues in urban transportation planning. Planning process discussed and transportation models introduced. Uses a systems framework, including goals and objectives, evaluation, implementation, and monitoring. A design term project, individual or small groups, utilizes material presented on a contemporary problem.
Civil Engineering^Computer-Aided Planning of Urban Systems Computer-Aided Planning of Urban Systems CEE 418 Computer-Aided Planning of Urban Systems (3)Survey of online planning applications; use of various on-line systems to solve urban systems design problems; investigations of hardware/software tradeoffs; human factors in man-computer systems design theory as it relates to problem-solving activity. Offered: jointly with URBDP 429.
Civil Engineering^Engineering with Developing Communities Engineering with Developing Communities CEE 420 Engineering with Developing Communities (3) DIVIntroduces key technologies, theories, and challenges of infrastructure design for development. Covers technologies for energy, water, sanitation, and disaster response in low-resource contexts. Explores development theory and cross-cultural communication as they pertain to global infrastructure design. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Pavement Design Pavement Design CEE 421 Pavement Design (3) J. MAHONEYCurrent and developing procedures for the structural thickness design of pavements. Bituminous and concrete pavements for highways and special heavy loading. Elastic layered systems, slab theory. Maintenance and overlay design.
Civil Engineering^Energy and Transportation Energy and Transportation CEE 422 Energy and Transportation (3) T. LARSON, J. MAHONEYIntroduces climate change; vehicles, energy requirements and pollution; transportation fuels; energy and power plant terminology; traditional fossil fuel, nuclear, and renewable energy plants; permitting power plants and projects.
Civil Engineering^GIS for Civil Engineers GIS for Civil Engineers CEE 424 GIS for Civil Engineers (3)GIS in civil engineering applications. Geographic and spatial data types and acquiring considerations. Data models and structures. Projections and transformations. Attribute-based operation, spatial operations. Surfaces and near neighbors. Training on Arc GIS software. Offered: AS.
Civil Engineering^Reinforced Concrete Construction Reinforced Concrete Construction CEE 425 Reinforced Concrete Construction (3) D. JANSSENProcesses in constructing reinforced concrete structures. Identification and development of solutions to potential constructability problems. Lectures augmented with industry speakers and a field trip to a building under construction. Requires senior or graduate standing in Civil Engineering or Construction Management and familiarity with reinforced concrete design/construction.
Civil Engineering^Lightweight Cementitious Composites Lightweight Cementitious Composites CEE 428 Lightweight Cementitious Composites ([0-2]-, max. 2) JanssenIntroduces the process of designing within constraints and introductory experimental design. Covers the importance of proper laboratory documentation. Examines the characteristics of cementitious binders and elementary composite behavior. Considers constructability. Interprets pre- and post-cracking elastic behavior. Includes organization and production of technical report the documents work performed. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Seismology and Earthquake Engineering Seismology and Earthquake Engineering CEE 431 Seismology and Earthquake Engineering (3) NWPresents an overview of earthquake processes and details of the characteristics of destructive ground motion; illustrates the effects of such motion on engineering structures; reviews current practice in estimating earthquake hazards for important structures such as nuclear power plants.
Civil Engineering^Foundation Design Foundation Design CEE 436 Foundation Design (3)Design considerations for foundations and retaining structures. Subsurface investigations and determination of soil properties for design. Design of shallow and deep foundations and retaining structures. Foundations and soil considerations for waterfront structures.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Geology I Engineering Geology I CEE 437 Engineering Geology I (3)General overview of engineering geology and its importance to civil engineers. Topics include geologic processes, hazards, subsurface investigations, classification of geologic materials, data synthesis, and natural construction materials.
Civil Engineering^Professional Practice Studio Professional Practice Studio CEE 440 Professional Practice Studio (2)Fundamentals of integrated civil engineering design, professional services marketing, project management, team dynamics, total quality management, value engineering, professional liability, and applied ethics in engineering practice. Emphasis on written and oral communications and on ethical, social, and economic factors. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Transportation and Construction Capstone Design Project Transportation and Construction Capstone Design Project CEE 441 Transportation and Construction Capstone Design Project (5)Comprehensive design project focusing on planning, design, and construction of a transportation project such as highways, transit, and airports.
Civil Engineering^Structural Geotechnical Capstone Design Project Structural Geotechnical Capstone Design Project CEE 442 Structural Geotechnical Capstone Design Project (5)Comprehensive team design project focusing on structural and geotechnical engineering. Requires design drawings, written reports, and oral presentations interfacing with related fields such as aesthetics and architecture, mechanical systems, traffic, environmental planning.
Civil Engineering^Water Resources and Hydraulic Engineering Capstone Design Project Water Resources and Hydraulic Engineering Capstone Design Project CEE 444 Water Resources and Hydraulic Engineering Capstone Design Project (5)Opportunity to effect design solutions for projects or major project components in such representative areas as reservoirs and associated systems for flood control, water supply, irrigation, and hydroelectric power, surface water control systems, fisheries related projects, small harbors, and coastal engineering problems.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Engineering Capstone Design Project Environmental Engineering Capstone Design Project CEE 445 Environmental Engineering Capstone Design Project (5)Individual and group design studies addressing environmental engineering problems such as stormwater management, water and wastewater treatment facilities, and residual processing. Prepare proposals, engineering reports, and alternative evaluations; process equipment design, present reports on selected design problems.
Civil Engineering^Design of Metal Structures Design of Metal Structures CEE 451 Design of Metal Structures (3) J. BERMAN, C. ROEDERIntroduction to the design and behavior of metal structures using LRFD concepts. Application of design methods and codes to columns, beams, frames, connections, and tension members.
Civil Engineering^Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures CEE 452 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures (3) D. LEHMAN, D. REED, J. STANTONFundamentals of design of buildings in reinforced concrete in accordance with current codes and practices.
Civil Engineering^Prestressed Concrete Design Prestressed Concrete Design CEE 453 Prestressed Concrete Design (3) Eberhard, StantonAnalysis, design, and construction of prestressed concrete structures.
Civil Engineering^Design of Timber Structures Design of Timber Structures CEE 454 Design of Timber Structures (3) Berman, ReedIncludes the design and construction of timber structures, using elements made of sawn wood, glued-laminated wood, and manufactured wood products.
Civil Engineering^Structural Unit Masonry Structural Unit Masonry CEE 455 Structural Unit Masonry (3) TawreseyStructural behavior and design of reinforced brick, tile, and unit concrete masonry structures.
Civil Engineering^Structural Analysis Structural Analysis CEE 456 Structural Analysis (5) Berman, Eberhard, LowesFundamental analysis and modeling of civil structural systems. Equilibrium, kinematics, and constitutive relations; formal solution procedures emphasizing element-based stiffness methods; computer-based and manual techniques; verification and interpretation of results; case studies involving real structures; introduction to finite element analysis of 2D continua.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Structures I Advanced Structures I CEE 457 Advanced Structures I (3) L. LOWESIntroduction to the finite element method for modeling civil structures. Formulation of line and continuum elements using virtual work and the principal of minimum potential energy. MATLAB programming of the finite element method. Use of commercial software to model real structures.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Structures II Advanced Structures II CEE 458 Advanced Structures II (3) Miller, StantonIntroduction to stability, including a consideration of elastic and inelastic buckling with applications to beam-columns and plates. Introduction to plastic analysis.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Structural Mechanics Advanced Structural Mechanics CEE 459 Advanced Structural Mechanics (3)Formulation and solution of the basic equations of elasticity. Applications in 2-D stress analysis, torsion, thermal stresses, and beams on elastic foundation. Plate theory optional.
Civil Engineering^Applied Limnology and Pollutant Effects on Freshwater Applied Limnology and Pollutant Effects on Freshwater CEE 462 Applied Limnology and Pollutant Effects on Freshwater (3) NWPrinciples of aquatic ecology that relate to causes and effects of water quality problems in lakes and streams. Population growth kinetics, nutrient cycling, eutrophication; acidification, oxygen/temperature requirements, and effects of various wastes on aquatic animals. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Limnology Laboratory Limnology Laboratory CEE 463 Limnology Laboratory (2) NWExamination of biota of fresh waters, survey of limnological methods, analysis of data, and writing of scientific papers.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Hydraulics in Water Resources Introduction to Hydraulics in Water Resources CEE 472 Introduction to Hydraulics in Water Resources (3)Hydraulics related to environmental issues. Global hydrology; stratified flows; two-phase (bubble) flows; pollutant transport and mixing in reservoirs, lakes, coastal waters, and oceans; diffuser design and related case studies.
Civil Engineering^Coastal Engineering I Coastal Engineering I CEE 473 Coastal Engineering I (3) ThomsonLinear theory of water waves, wave transformations near shore, sediment motion, and elementary tidal theory; shoreline protection methods; and applications illustrated by selected case histories.
Civil Engineering^Hydraulics of Sediment Transport Hydraulics of Sediment Transport CEE 474 Hydraulics of Sediment Transport (3) A. HORNER-DEVINEIntroduction to sediment transport in steady flows with emphasis on physical principles governing the motion of sediment particles. Topics include sediment characteristics, initiation of particle motion, particle suspension, bedforms, streambed roughness analysis, sediment discharge formulae, and modeling of scour and deposition in rivers and channels.
Civil Engineering^Analysis Techniques for Groundwater Flow Analysis Techniques for Groundwater Flow CEE 475 Analysis Techniques for Groundwater Flow (3) R. NEUMANNPresents the fundamentals of subsurface flow and transport, emphasizing the role of groundwater in hydrologic cycle, the relation of groundwater flow to geologic structure, and the management of contaminated groundwater. Concepts are applied to well-known hydrogeologic sites.
Civil Engineering^Physical Hydrology Physical Hydrology CEE 476 Physical Hydrology (3) IstanbulluogluGlobal water picture, data sources and data homogeneity, precipitation and streamflow hydrography analysis; calculation of surface runoff, evapotranspiration, and groundwater recharge. Hydrologic data frequency analysis and probability theory. Hydrologic design: flood mitigation, drainage. Introduction to deterministic and stochastic models.
Civil Engineering^Open-Channel Flow Open-Channel Flow CEE 477 Open-Channel Flow (3) Jessup.Water flow in natural and engineered channels, rivers, and streams. Analysis and design of channels (lined, vegetated), flow controls (weirs, spillways), and structures affecting fish passage (culverts). Prediction of water surface profiles. Introduction to river mechanics. Design-oriented problems.
Civil Engineering^Air-Quality Modeling Air-Quality Modeling CEE 480 Air-Quality Modeling (3) NWEvaluation of air-quality models relating air pollution emissions to environmental concentrations. Emphasis on models used for air pollution permits. Emphasizes current problems. Offered: jointly with ATM S 480; W.
Civil Engineering^Hydraulic Design for Environmental Engineering Hydraulic Design for Environmental Engineering CEE 481 Hydraulic Design for Environmental Engineering (3) E. ISTANBULLUOGLUIntroduction to the theory and the practice of planning and design of urban water supply distribution, pump stations, sewage and storm-water collection systems, and green stormwater infrastructure. Engineering methods and computer programs are applied for designing basic system elements.
Civil Engineering^Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Wastewater Treatment and Reuse CEE 482 Wastewater Treatment and Reuse (3)Introduces wastewater treatment and systems, emphasizing fundamental biological, chemical, and physical processes related to protection of public health environmental quality and water reuse. Process analysis of the configuration and sizing of major types of treatment processes for various sizes of plants and effluent requirements.
Civil Engineering^Drinking Water Treatment Drinking Water Treatment CEE 483 Drinking Water Treatment (3)Studies scientific, engineering, and regulatory principles underlying drinking water treatment; development of conceptual models for how and why treatment processes work and mathematical models describing their performance under various design and operating scenarios; field trips to water treatment systems.
Civil Engineering^Decentralized and On-Site Wastewater Management and Reuse Decentralized and On-Site Wastewater Management and Reuse CEE 484 Decentralized and On-Site Wastewater Management and Reuse (3)Design and performance of on-site and decentralized wastewater treatment. Determination of appropriate alternatives based on endpoints of water reuse, economics, policy, management, water quality, and ecological considerations. Meeting sanitation and water reuse for situations including, individual homes, rural areas, developing countries, and high density urban dwellings.
Civil Engineering^Solid-Waste Disposal Solid-Waste Disposal CEE 487 Solid-Waste Disposal (3)Describes sources and handling of municipal and industrial solid waste, with examination of collection, processing, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal alternatives. Public policy issues, local agencies and solid waste facilities, the legal and regulatory framework are all addressed in context of solid waste engineering.
Civil Engineering^Hazardous Wastes Engineering Hazardous Wastes Engineering CEE 488 Hazardous Wastes Engineering (3)Classification of hazardous wastes; resource conservation, Recovery Act regulations; characteristics and behavior of toxic organics; superfund; groundwater contamination, solutions. Hazardous waste site remedial action; case histories; sampling; landfill design. Stabilization and processing technologies, including incineration, carbon adsorption, emerging techniques.
Civil Engineering^Water and Air Quality Sampling Water and Air Quality Sampling CEE 489 Water and Air Quality Sampling (2)Samples collected from lakes, streams, precipitation, and air. Resulting (and supplemental) data interpreted for cause-effect and statistical inference. Design for water and air quality monitoring programs.
Civil Engineering^Air-Pollution Control Air-Pollution Control CEE 490 Air-Pollution Control (4)Fundamental concepts of air pollution Control including emission sources, atmospheric dispersion, ambient concentrations, and emission standards, with emphasis on processes and equipment for controlling emissions. Offered: jointly with ENV H 461; ASp.
Civil Engineering^Deterministic Systems Deterministic Systems CEE 491 Deterministic Systems (3)Development of quantitative methods for mathematical problem solving with emphasis on computer applications. Linear programming, mathematics of the simplex algorithm, sensitivity analysis, dynamic programming, systems simulation, and goal programming. Class project required. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Stochastic Systems Stochastic Systems CEE 492 Stochastic Systems (3)Introduction to probability distributions and statistics useful in systems analysis, conditional distributions, queuing theory and applications, Monte Carlo simulation, chance-constrained mathematical programming, and stochastic dynamic programming. Emphasis on application of the techniques to civil engineering systems problems, including transportation, water resources, and structures.
Civil Engineering^Air-Pollution Source Testing and Equipment Evaluation Air-Pollution Source Testing and Equipment Evaluation CEE 493 Air-Pollution Source Testing and Equipment Evaluation (3)Engineering evaluation of air pollutant sources and air control equipment. Fundamentals of source testing and stack sampling, including laboratory exercises.
Civil Engineering^Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design CEE 494 Air-Pollution Control Equipment Design (3)Designs to control air pollutants from stationary sources. Procedures for calculating design and operating parameters. Fundamental mechanisms and processes of gaseous and particulate control equipment for absorption and adsorption of gaseous pollutants; electrostatic precipitation and filtration of particulate pollutants. Actual case studies. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 468/M E 468.
Civil Engineering^Sustainability and Design for Environment Sustainability and Design for Environment CEE 495 Sustainability and Design for Environment (3) CooperAnalysis and design of technology systems within the context of the environment, economy, and society. Applies the concepts of resource conservation, pollution prevention, life cycle assessment, and extended product responsibility. Examines the practice, opportunities, and role of engineering, management, and public policy. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 415/M E 415.
Civil Engineering^Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment CEE 496 Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment (3) NeumannPresents a general introduction to the fundamental physical, chemical, and biological processes governing the movement and fate of chemicals in surface water and groundwater. Provides basic literacy in environment transport and fate processes, creating a solid foundation for accessing and synthesizing material on these topics. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad CEE 497 Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad (5) GoughExamines impacts of a hot dry climate on water engineering systems by studying the engineered water cycle in Jordan including: water cycles and sources in Jordan; drinking water treatment and desalination; wastewater treatment and reuse; decentralized and on-site treatment; and ancient water engineering.
Civil Engineering^Special Topics Special Topics CEE 498 Special Topics (1-5, max. 12)Special topics in civil engineering offered as course with lecture or laboratory.
Civil Engineering^Independent Study/Research Independent Study/Research CEE 499 Independent Study/Research (1-5, max. 12)Individual undergraduate research project.
Civil Engineering^Civil and Environmental Engineering Seminars Civil and Environmental Engineering Seminars CEE 500 Civil and Environmental Engineering Seminars (1, max. 3)
Civil Engineering^Structural Mechanics Structural Mechanics CEE 501 Structural Mechanics (6) Mackenzie, MillerEquations of a continuum for small displacements, applications to linear elasticity. Kirchoff plate theory, problems in advanced strength of materials. Virtual work, minimum potential energy, force and displacement methods of structural analysis. Direct stiffness method. Approximate solutions, geometric stiffness matrix. Linearized buckling. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Structural Dynamics Structural Dynamics CEE 502 Structural Dynamics (3) Eberhard, StantonLagrange's equations. Free vibrations of linear, single, and multiple degree of freedom systems. Damping. Mode superposition. Forced vibrations by time history and by response spectrum methods. Free and forced vibrations of continuous systems. Wave propagation in rods and beams.
Civil Engineering^Materials Modeling Materials Modeling CEE 503 Materials Modeling (3)Behavior of materials used in civil engineering structures. Yield and failure surfaces. Physical and phenomenological models of plastic and viscoelastic behavior. Fracture mechanics. Fatigue models and predictions. Damping and friction. Behavior of anisotropic and composite materials. Offered: S.
Civil Engineering^Finite Element Methods in Structural Mechanics Finite Element Methods in Structural Mechanics CEE 504 Finite Element Methods in Structural Mechanics (3) Mackenzie, Lowes, MillerExtension of the matrix methods of structural analysis to the solution of elasticity, plate, and shell problems by use of finite element approximations. Discussion of convergence and bounding and extension to investigation of stability and finite deformations.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Computing Engineering Computing CEE 505 Engineering Computing (3) Lowes, Mackenzie, MillerApplied computing in civil and environmental engineering contexts, including physical systems modeling, graphics and visualization, and data management. Program development using contemporary tools and strategies. Computer architecture fundamentals, theoretical and practical issues affecting memory use and performance. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Nonlinear Analysis of Structural Systems Nonlinear Analysis of Structural Systems CEE 506 Nonlinear Analysis of Structural Systems (3) Lowes, Miller, MackenzieFormulation, solution, and interpretation of nonlinear numerical models of structural systems. Material and geometric nonlinearities for truss, beam, and frame systems. Resultant-based material laws. Large deformations. Solutions procedures, arc-length methods. Introduction to parameter identification.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Rome: Study Abroad Engineering Rome: Study Abroad CEE 509 Engineering Rome: Study Abroad (5) MuenchCovers Roman civil engineering over 3,000 years from Ancient Rome to the present day. Introduces civil engineering topics reinforced by practical engineering calculations, local experts, and site visits. Provides international and historical perspective on engineering and the contributions of engineers to infrastructure and society.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Reinforced Concrete Advanced Reinforced Concrete CEE 511 Advanced Reinforced Concrete (3) Eberhard, StantonBehavior and design of reinforced concrete members and structures. Members subject to torsion and torsion combined with flexure and shear; members with small shear span/depth ratios, slabs.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Structural Systems Advanced Structural Systems CEE 512 Advanced Structural Systems (3) Eberhard, StantonExamines structural design of floor systems for buildings, including one-way and two-way slabs, strip method, yield line theory, prestressed concrete slabs. Lateral load resisting systems for buildings.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Steel I Advanced Steel I CEE 513 Advanced Steel I (3) Berman, RoederFactors influencing strength and serviceability of steel structures; LRFD limit state design procedures. Use of theories of plasticity and stability in development of design methods and specifications, bolted and welded connections, temperature effects, and affect of different fabrication methods on behavior of structure.
Civil Engineering^Earthquake Engineering I Earthquake Engineering I CEE 515 Earthquake Engineering I (3) RoederEarthquake mechanism and ground shaking, response spectra, linear elastic methods for prediction of behavior, displacement prediction methods for inelastically behaving structures, modeling and solution schemes, earthquake design philosophy, capacity design. Reinforced concrete, steel, and base-isolated structures.
Civil Engineering^Earthquake Engineering II Earthquake Engineering II CEE 516 Earthquake Engineering II (3) RoederPerformance-based design, development of fragility curves, characteristics and effects of ground-shaking records, design methods, passive and active control, dynamic inelastic time history analysis, design of parts, system detailing, soil-structure interaction, repair and retrofit of structures.
Civil Engineering^Wind Engineering Design Wind Engineering Design CEE 517 Wind Engineering Design (3) ReedWind effects on structures, including atmospheric boundary layer flow; bluff body aerodynamics; structural dynamics and aeroelasticity; development and use of the ASCE Standards; estimation of along-wind, across-wind, and torsional response of tall buildings; design strategies for avoiding wind-induced discomfort. Fundamentals of wind tunnel testing. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Reliability and Design Reliability and Design CEE 518 Reliability and Design (3) ReedIntroduction to theory of structural reliability and its application to design procedures in civil engineering, including probability theory; assessment of uncertainties; code specification and the related concept of risk and the influence of socioeconomic factors; loads, load combinations, and probabilities of damage. Offered: AS.
Civil Engineering^Seepage and Consolidation Seepage and Consolidation CEE 521 Seepage and Consolidation (3)Confined and unconfined seepage through porous media, flow net solutions, consolidation, settlement, numerical solution of seepage, and consolidation problems.
Civil Engineering^Shear Strength and Slope Stability Shear Strength and Slope Stability CEE 522 Shear Strength and Slope Stability (3)Shear strength of cohesive and granular soils and slope stability analysis of natural and man-made slopes.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Foundation Engineering Advanced Foundation Engineering CEE 523 Advanced Foundation Engineering (3)Design of shallow and deep foundations for bearing capacity and settlement. Construction considerations.
Civil Engineering^Lateral Earth Pressures and Retaining Structures Lateral Earth Pressures and Retaining Structures CEE 524 Lateral Earth Pressures and Retaining Structures (3)Lateral earth pressure theory. Design of temporary and permanent retaining structures including in situ reinforcement.
Civil Engineering^Soil Dynamics Soil Dynamics CEE 525 Soil Dynamics (3)Dynamics of discrete systems; dynamics of continuous systems, wave propagation; dynamic soil properties; linear, nonlinear, and equivalent linear ground response analysis; vibrations of footings; construction vibrations; vibration isolation.
Civil Engineering^Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering CEE 526 Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering (3)Plate tectonics and elastic rebound theory of earthquakes and faults; characterization of ground motions; seismicity; seismic risk analysis; effect of local soil conditions on ground response; development of design ground motions; liquefaction; dynamic lateral earth pressures; seismic slope stability.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Geotechnical Laboratory Advanced Geotechnical Laboratory CEE 527 Advanced Geotechnical Laboratory (4)Soil and site investigation, classification and engineering properties of soils and rock as determined by standard and advanced test procedures and equipment. Evaluation of test data. Report writing.
Civil Engineering^Geosynthetic Engineering Geosynthetic Engineering CEE 528 Geosynthetic Engineering (3)Identification and testing of geosynthetics. Design of geosynthetic filters, roadway stabilization, earth reinforcement, and waste containment systems.
Civil Engineering^Foundation Soil Improvement Foundation Soil Improvement CEE 529 Foundation Soil Improvement (3)Analysis and design of physical and chemical treatment techniques commonly applied to problem foundation soils for civil engineering structure.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Geology II Engineering Geology II CEE 530 Engineering Geology II (3)Application of engineering geology fundamentals to: location, design, and maintenance of engineered structures; policy decisions related to potential geological hazards. Case histories, governmental policy discussions, interpretation of geological maps for engineering purposes.
Civil Engineering^Rock Engineering Rock Engineering CEE 531 Rock Engineering (3)Engineering classification, physical and mechanical properties of rocks, failure modes and initial stresses in rocks, laboratory and field testing of rocks, rock slope engineering, underground openings, foundations on rocks.
Civil Engineering^Microbiological Process Fundamentals Microbiological Process Fundamentals CEE 540 Microbiological Process Fundamentals (3) StahlFundamental concepts for microbial processes including organic chemical structure, nomenclature and environmental properties, principles of microbial metabolism, study of specific types of bacteria important to environmental engineering and their metabolism, development of microbial kinetic equations, including substrate utilization, energetics, and stoichiometry.
Civil Engineering^Biological Treatment Systems Biological Treatment Systems CEE 541 Biological Treatment Systems (3)Basic reactions, design principles, current design models, and operational considerations for biological treatment systems used in environmental engineering. Applications include activated sludge design and optimization, fixed film reactors, nitrification, nitrogen removal, phosphorus removal, anaerobic treatment, biomethane production, resource recovery, and toxic organics removal.
Civil Engineering^Aquatic Chemistry Aquatic Chemistry CEE 543 Aquatic Chemistry (4)Principles of chemical equilibrium applicable to natural water systems and water and waste treatment processes. Chemical thermodynamics. Characteristics of acid/base, gas/liquid, solid/liquid, and oxidation/reduction equilibria. Computer models for chemical speciation. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Physical-Chemical Treatment Processes Physical-Chemical Treatment Processes CEE 544 Physical-Chemical Treatment Processes (4)Principles and design of major physical-chemical unit processes used in water, wastewater, and hazardous waste treatment. Topics include chemical kinetics, reactor design and analysis, ion exchange, adsorption, and gas transfer. Development of mathematical models and evaluation of current design practice. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Organic Chemistry Environmental Organic Chemistry CEE 545 Environmental Organic Chemistry (3)Covers characterization and modeling of properties and processes governing the distribution, fate, and transformation of organic pollutants in environmental systems. Explores linear free energy relationships and their application to examining the water/soil/air partitioning, bioaccumulation, substitution and redox reaction kinetics, and abiotic transformations of organic pollutants.
Civil Engineering^Topics in Ecological Effects of Wastewater Topics in Ecological Effects of Wastewater CEE 546 Topics in Ecological Effects of Wastewater (3)Application of ecological concepts for analysis and interpretation of bioenvironmental problems and data (eutrophication, acid rain, and toxicity). Students participate in presentation and discussion of current research.
Civil Engineering^Lake and Watershed Management Lake and Watershed Management CEE 547 Lake and Watershed Management (3)Application of current techniques for lake and watershed analysis and modeling using fundamentals of limnology. Approaches to restoring eutrophic lakes, land use impacts on water quality. Practical exercises using data from real lake systems.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Environmental Engineering, Chemistry, and Biology Advanced Topics in Environmental Engineering, Chemistry, and Biology CEE 549 Advanced Topics in Environmental Engineering, Chemistry, and Biology (3)Special topics of current importance in environmental engineering. Application of fundamental chemical and biological principles to the study of such phenomena as the behavior of aqueous colloids, corrosion processes, and bacterial metabolism in chemically complex solutions.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Chemical Modeling Environmental Chemical Modeling CEE 550 Environmental Chemical Modeling (3)Physical/chemical principles controlling the fate and distribution of environmental pollutants, and use of models to apply those principles. Includes modeling of physical transport in conjunction with chemical equilibrium and reaction kinetics. Applications focus on groundwater systems.
Civil Engineering^Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment CEE 551 Fate and Transport of Chemicals in the Environment (3) NeumannPresents a general introduction to the fundamental physical, chemical, and biological processes governing the movement and fate of chemicals in surface water and groundwater. Provides basic literacy in environment transport and fate processes, creating a solid foundation for accessing and synthesizing material on these topics. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Regulations Environmental Regulations CEE 552 Environmental Regulations (3) I&SPrincipal emphasis on regulations pertaining to construction site stormwater runoff, including regulatory background and requirements, how to analyze potential site problems and prepare plans to solve them, and specifying practices to avoid or reduce water pollutant releases. Briefer coverage of regulations concerning air pollutions, wetlands, hazardous wastes, and endangered species.
Civil Engineering^Seminar - Topics in Atmospheric Chemistry Seminar - Topics in Atmospheric Chemistry CEE 553 Seminar - Topics in Atmospheric Chemistry (1-3, max. 6)Seminar for atmospheric scientists, chemists, engineers in problems associated with the chemical composition of the atmosphere. Covers wide variety of topics, ranging from the natural system to urban pollution and global atmospheric change.
Civil Engineering^Acoustics of Environmental Noise Acoustics of Environmental Noise CEE 554 Acoustics of Environmental Noise (4)Offered: jointly with M E 528.
Civil Engineering^Topics in Environmental Health Topics in Environmental Health CEE 555 Topics in Environmental Health (3)Introduction to human biology, including physiology, epidemiology, and toxicology. Study of contemporary environmental health problems and practices as they relate to radiological health, solid-waste disposal, occupational health, biometeorology, and bioengineering.
Civil Engineering^Air Resources Management Air Resources Management CEE 557 Air Resources Management (3)Technical, administrative, and legal aspects of air conservation. Topics include urban and regional scale air quality measurement and modeling systems, receptor modeling based on chemical fingerprinting of sources and current case studies involving engineering analysis, air-quality modeling, and regulatory aspects at local, state, and federal governmental levels. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Risk Assessment for Environmental Health Hazards Risk Assessment for Environmental Health Hazards CEE 560 Risk Assessment for Environmental Health Hazards (3/4)Examines context, methodologies, data, uncertainties, and institutional arrangements for risk assessment. Qualitative and quantitative approaches to identification, characterization, and control of environmental hazards to health emphasized through didactic and case studies. Offered: jointly with ENV H 577/PB AF 589; A.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Planning and Design Transportation Planning and Design CEE 561 Transportation Planning and Design (4) AveryProvides an overview of transportation planning and how sustainability fits into this field. Topics include institutional frameworks, legal/legislative issues, land use, capacity analysis, supply management and Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). Covers tasks/tools of transportation planning at the site, city, region, and state levels. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Livable Communities and Design Livable Communities and Design CEE 562 Livable Communities and Design (4) BassokExplores the positives and negatives affecting livability. Covers sprawl and compact cities, energy issues and environmental quality, transit-oriented and traditional neighborhood development, and mixed-use and mixed income developments. Includes context-sensitive solutions to transportation projects. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Choices and Technology Transportation Choices and Technology CEE 563 Transportation Choices and Technology (4) RutherfordExplores the range of sustainable transportation choices for both people and goods. Studies passenger modes of transportation including bicycles, single-occupancy vehicles, care and van pools, shared autos, bus, rail, ferries, trolleys, and foot travel in the context of sustainability. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Sustainable Transportation from a Systems Perspective Sustainable Transportation from a Systems Perspective CEE 564 Sustainable Transportation from a Systems Perspective (5) McCormackCovers tools to evaluate and develop sustainable transportation systems. Emphasizes design approaches that support sustainable transportation, methods to evaluate the full life cycle impacts of transportation systems, and tools to assess transportation networks as resilient systems. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Climate Change and Energy Climate Change and Energy CEE 565 Climate Change and Energy (5) Larson, MahoneyCovers the nature of global climate systems, global warming, ozone depletion, and human influences. Introduces tools to evaluate current and alternative energy production and conversion options for transportation. Explores the nexus between transportation and energy in the context of climate change adaptation and mitigation. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Analysis and Assessment Environmental Analysis and Assessment CEE 566 Environmental Analysis and Assessment (5) WatkinsReviews statistical methods necessary to analyze environmental issues. Uses environmental data to demonstrate how significant impacts are measured and reported. Discusses transportation data sources, sustainable transportation indicators, and related statistical analysis. Includes travel demand forecasting and a review of engineering economy. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Health and Sustainable Transportation Health and Sustainable Transportation CEE 567 Health and Sustainable Transportation (5) RowangouldExamines how transportation policy is driven by human health impacts. Highlights water and air impacts on health along with the health benefit of human powered transportation. Presents legal and regulatory issues. Case studies provide examples of application of these principles to real world transportation issues. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Economics Transportation Economics CEE 568 Transportation Economics (5) NiemeierEconomics applied to transportation planning, operations, maintenance, and management problems; microeconomic and macroeconomic theories; benefit-cost analysis; and the effect of uncertainty. Presents the effect of tolls, parking pricing, transit subsides, and other pricing and incentive policies. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Policy Development, Finance, and Sustainable Transportation Policy Development, Finance, and Sustainable Transportation CEE 569 Policy Development, Finance, and Sustainable Transportation (5) RutherfordCovers the development and implementation of transportation policies to support sustainable transportation systems. Reviews regulations and finance opportunities at the local, state, and federal level highlighting those that promote sustainable transportation. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Hydrodynamics Hydrodynamics CEE 570 Hydrodynamics (4) A. HORNER-DEVINEApplications of the equations of motion to ideal and real fluid flow, with topics in Environmental Fluid Mechanics. Kinematics, Navier-Stokes equations, viscous flows, Coriolis, density driven flows, free surface flows, and introduction to turbulence. Applications include: tidal flushing, lakes, estuaries, gravity currents and river plumes.
Civil Engineering^Hydrodynamics in Water Quality Hydrodynamics in Water Quality CEE 571 Hydrodynamics in Water Quality (3)Theoretical, field study, and laboratory model approaches to diffusion in transport problems of concern to water resources engineers.
Civil Engineering^Water Wave Mechanics Water Wave Mechanics CEE 572 Water Wave Mechanics (3)Theory of water waves. Classical water wave problem and approximate solution techniques. Evolution equations for and their solutions wave systems. Viscous damping effects and mass transport. Nonlinear shallow-water waves and the Korteweg-deVries equation. Waves on beaches.
Civil Engineering^Snow Hydrology Snow Hydrology CEE 573 Snow Hydrology (3) LundquistIntroduces snow hydrology research, emphasizing current research methods and results in both measurements and modeling. Explores the impact of snow on hydrology and water resources. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Hydrology Advanced Hydrology CEE 574 Advanced Hydrology (3) E. ISTANBULLUOGLUDetailed treatment of statistical methods used in hydrology: trend analysis, hypothesis testing, flood frequency, and elements of stochastic hydrology and data generation. Detailed examination of hydrologic models with emphasis on evapotranspiration and water budget, use of a watershed model (e.g., Stanford Watershed Model) in catchment. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Water Resources Planning Water Resources Planning CEE 576 Water Resources Planning (3)Engineering, social, and economic factors involved in water resource development and management; water policies, programs, and administration; use relationships and conflicts; considerations for regional water resource systems.
Civil Engineering^Water-Quality Management Water-Quality Management CEE 577 Water-Quality Management (3)Application of biological, ecological, and chemical processes to modeling of water quality and use of such models in appropriate management of water resource systems. Includes units on the modeling of temperature, BOD, nutrient, phytoplankton, zooplankton, and other processes in lakes, streams, and estuaries. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Water Resource System Management and Operations Water Resource System Management and Operations CEE 578 Water Resource System Management and Operations (3)Readings in recent literature related to the modeling and management of water resources. Topics include drought management, expansion of existing water supplies, hydropower production, streamflow forecasting, water demand forecasting, regional water planning, climate change, and other topical issues. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Traffic Detection Systems Advanced Traffic Detection Systems CEE 579 Advanced Traffic Detection Systems (3) WangIntroduction to advanced tracking and detection technologies in transportation engineering, including Global Positioning Systems (GPS), inductance loop detection systems, remote traffic microwave radar, computer-vision based technologies, and other emerging detection technologies with cutting-edge research in these areas.
Civil Engineering^Urban Transportation Planning Urban Transportation Planning CEE 580 Urban Transportation Planning (4) RutherfordIntroduction to transportation planning, including trends and issues, land use and transportation interaction, surveys, public involvement, demand management, technology, forecasting, impacts, and policy strategies. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Travel Demand Forecasting Travel Demand Forecasting CEE 581 Travel Demand Forecasting (4)Application of mathematical models to forecast urban travel behavior. Introduces emerging methods, land use models, travel demand models, including trip generation, trip distribution, mode choice, and network assignment. Discusses validation and ethics. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Intelligent Transportation Systems Intelligent Transportation Systems CEE 582 Intelligent Transportation Systems (3)Application of modern computer and communication technologies to transportation systems. Benefits to public agencies, commercial companies, and travelers. Coordination between private and public sectors. Intelligent Transportation System's (ITS) social, organizational, and operational changes. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Analytical Methods in Transportation I Analytical Methods in Transportation I CEE 584 Analytical Methods in Transportation I (3) BoyleApplication of analytical and statistical methods to issues in transportation and driving. Analysis of probability distributions that describe variables. Development of statistical models for predicting transportation phenomena. Elementary sampling theory hypothesis testing, regression analysis, time series analysis, applied to transportation data. Offered: jointly with IND E 546; W.
Civil Engineering^Analytical Methods in Transportation II Analytical Methods in Transportation II CEE 585 Analytical Methods in Transportation II (3)Applications of advanced econometric methods to transportation issues. Topics include, but not limited to, systems of equations, duration models, limited dependent variable approaches, and count models. Hands-on modeling, with numerous data sets, available for application. Collaborative projects.
Civil Engineering^Pedestrian Travel, Land Use, and Urban Form Pedestrian Travel, Land Use, and Urban Form CEE 586 Pedestrian Travel, Land Use, and Urban Form (3)Seminar concentrating on walking as a mode of transportation in cities and city-regions, including social, cognitive, and perceptual dimensions of pedestrian movement and behavior theory. Offered: jointly with URBDP 576.
Civil Engineering^Global Trade, Transportation, and Logistics Management Global Trade, Transportation, and Logistics Management CEE 587 Global Trade, Transportation, and Logistics Management (4)Provides an overview of trade, transportation, and logistics activities. Develops an understanding of the physical and information flows in supply chains, and the economic drivers of supply chain choices. Includes methods to analyze and improve logistics and transportation systems, including applications of policy, technology, and infrastructure. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Energy Infrastructure and the Environment Energy Infrastructure and the Environment CEE 588 Energy Infrastructure and the Environment (3) Larson, MahoneyFocuses on energy infrastructure, including site selection, permitting, design, construction, and maintenance. Includes electrical production facilities as well as transmission, focusing on permitting and construction of renewable energy facilities. Covers renewable energy infrastructure, emphasizing wind, solar, and geothermal. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Transit Systems Planning Transit Systems Planning CEE 589 Transit Systems Planning (3)Planning, operational methods for urban public transportation. Review of technological, operating characteristics of vehicles and systems; financing, management, institutional aspects. Paratransit. Short-range planning, operational strategies, revenue-fare structures. Service monitoring. Mode choice, transit demand relating to service. Computer-aided methods for planning, design of transit systems. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Traffic Systems Operations Traffic Systems Operations CEE 590 Traffic Systems Operations (3) Goodchild, McCormackOperational planning, management of arterial and freeway traffic systems. Review of transportation system management strategies to achieve more efficient use of existing infrastructure, including improved and innovative traffic control systems and demand management policies, measures of effectiveness, impact assessment, traveler response. Introduction to use of relevant computer models and packages. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Freight Transportation Freight Transportation CEE 591 Freight Transportation (3)Overview of the technical and institutional aspects of transporting freight. Topics include the different modes of moving freight, the technology of transferring freight between modes at ports and terminals, issues that impact freight movement such as congestion and government regulation, and the future of freight mobility. Also covers regional freight demand modeling techniques. Offered: A.
Civil Engineering^Statistical Fundamentals for Construction and Materials Applications Statistical Fundamentals for Construction and Materials Applications CEE 592 Statistical Fundamentals for Construction and Materials Applications (3) S. MUENCHOverview of statistical measures used in various construction and materials decision-making processes. Subjects include data distributions, hypothesis tests (making decisions with statistics), regression analysis, sampling, quality control and assurance, and experimental design. Uses construction data to illustrate these measures. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Construction Labor Law Construction Labor Law CEE 593 Construction Labor Law (3) GoldblattIn-depth study of construction labor topics, including labor-management organization, legislation, and regulation, collective bargaining, and job site administration. Examines importance of labor relations in construction firms, whether in a union setting or an open shop environment.
Civil Engineering^Computer-Aided Construction Computer-Aided Construction CEE 594 Computer-Aided Construction (3)Application of information technology to construction management and cost estimating. Topics include, but not limited to, computerized construction, fundamentals of computer hardware, construction management software tools, web publishing, GPS application, and construction data management. Offered: S.
Civil Engineering^Construction Materials Construction Materials CEE 595 Construction Materials (3) MahoneyExamines the use of aggregates, bituminous mixtures, Portland cement concrete, roller compacted concrete, soil and site stabilization, utility cuts, and flowable backfill in construction projects. Emphasis on behavior of materials in various construction applications. Offered: W.
Civil Engineering^Pavement Construction Pavement Construction CEE 596 Pavement Construction (3) MuenchExamines pavement construction, including pavement contracts and specifications, quality control and assurance programs, and plant and laydown operations. Reviews both national and international pavement construction practices. Offered: Sp.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad CEE 598 Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad (5) GoughExamines impacts of a hot dry climate on water engineering systems by studying the engineered water cycle in Jordan including: water cycles and sources in Jordan; drinking water treatment and desalination; wastewater treatment and reuse; decentralized and on-site treatment; and ancient water engineering.
Civil Engineering^Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering CEE 599 Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering (1-5, max. 20)Special topics in civil and environmental engineering offered occasionally by permanent or visiting faculty members.
Civil Engineering^Internship Internship CEE 601 Internship (2)Internship in an established program between industry, government, and the University.
Communications^Introduction to Communication I Introduction to Communication I COM 201 Introduction to Communication I (5) I&SIntroduces students to four core principles that undergird the study and practice of communication - communication literacy, research inquiry, theories and concepts, and community engagement. Principles discussed and developed in the context of international communication, political communication, and communication technology and society.
Communications^Introduction to Communication II Introduction to Communication II COM 202 Introduction to Communication II (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduces students to four core principles that undergird the study and practice of communication - communication literacy, research inquiry, theories and concepts, and community engagement. Principles discussed and developed in the context of social interaction, rhetoric and critical studies, and communication and culture.
Communications^Introductory Communication Topics Introductory Communication Topics COM 210 Introductory Communication Topics (5, max. 10)Introduction to a specified area of communication scholarship.
Communications^Introduction to Public Speaking Introduction to Public Speaking COM 220 Introduction to Public Speaking (5) VLPA/I&SDesigned to increase competence in public speaking and the critique of public speaking. Emphasizes choice and organization of material, sound reasoning, audience analysis, and delivery.
Communications^Introduction to Language and Society Introduction to Language and Society COM 233 Introduction to Language and Society (5) VLPA, DIV Evans, WassinkIntroduces the study of sociolects, the varieties of language that arise from differences in cultural and societal groups, often reflective of power inequalities. Raises awareness of the role that society and the individual play in shaping sociolects via the systematic observation and critical discussion of linguistic phenomena. Offered: jointly with ANTH 233/LING 233; A.
Communications^PUBLIC DEBATE PUBLIC DEBATE COM 234 PUBLIC DEBATE (5) VLPA/I&SExamines public debate in a democracy by developing a rhetorical perspective of public argument and skills to evaluate debates critically. Develops an understanding of rhetoric, values, audiences, tests of reasoning, and sources of information. Sharpens critical skills and applies them to contemporary controversies in the public sphere.
Communications^Rhetoric and Popular Culture Rhetoric and Popular Culture COM 238 Rhetoric and Popular Culture (5) VLPAExplores the rhetorical dimensions of popular culture (e.g., film, television, music, advertising, and video games) and their important, albeit often tacit, political and social implications. Themes include the ways popular culture shapes civic life, the influence of popular culture on identity, and the relationship between commerce and culture.
Communications^Interpersonal Communication Interpersonal Communication COM 270 Interpersonal Communication (5) VLPA/I&SEmphasizes analyzing and understanding communication variables affecting human relationships, such as person perception, feedback, idea development, nonverbal cues. Focus on informal communication settings.
Communications^Communication Power and Difference Communication Power and Difference COM 289 Communication Power and Difference (5) I&S, DIVExplores how communication - from face-to-face to mass media messages - reinforces or challenges conceptions of power, privilege, and difference along racial, ethnic, gender, sexual, class, ability, religion, and other important lines. Examines how communication practices, particularly media, shape inequality as well as our understanding of ourselves and the world.
Communications^Basic Concepts of New Media Basic Concepts of New Media COM 300 Basic Concepts of New Media (5) VLPA/I&SProvides a comprehensive examination of the effects of new, digital media on interpersonal communication, media industries, and media culture. Emphasis on economic, social, political, and aesthetic implications. Provides limited experience with computer-based media. No prior technical computer experience assumed.
Communications^Navigating Information Networks for Mass Media Navigating Information Networks for Mass Media COM 301 Navigating Information Networks for Mass Media (5) I&SBuilds familiarity with computer-mediated information networks. Introduces and compares network search engines, agents, browsing/viewing tools and retrieval/transfer software for use by reporters and other media workers. Instruction and practice with searching/acquiring information, its analysis and interpretation, illustration, and write-up. No prior computer or network experience assumed.
Communications^The Cultural Impact of Information Technology The Cultural Impact of Information Technology COM 302 The Cultural Impact of Information Technology (5) VLPA/I&SUtilizing approaches from the history of technology, cultural studies, and literary theory, seeks to analyze the cultural and social impact of information technology. Considers how information technologies impact our relationships with others, our concept(s) of self, and the structure of the communities to which we belong. Offered: jointly with CHID 370.
Communications^The Press and Politics in the United States The Press and Politics in the United States COM 304 The Press and Politics in the United States (5) I&SJournalists' role in elections and public policy. Relationship between news coverage and political campaigns. Study and analysis of local political newswriting, reporting, and response by local and state political figures. Extensive off-campus experience included. Offered: jointly with POL S 304.
Communications^The Politics of Mass Communication in America The Politics of Mass Communication in America COM 305 The Politics of Mass Communication in America (5) I&SRole of mass audiences in politics from the standpoint of the communication strategies used to shape their political involvement. Topics include: social structure and political participation, political propaganda and persuasion, the political uses of public opinion, and the mass media and politics. Offered: jointly with POL S 305.
Communications^Media, Society, and Political Identity I&S Media, Society, and Political Identity I&S COM 306 Media, Society, and Political Identity I&S (5) I&S W. BENNETTExplores how society and culture are both represented in and shaped by communication technologies and media content. Media include film, advertising, news, entertainment television, talk shows, and the Internet. Explores how media represent and affect individual identity, values, and political engagement. Offered: jointly with POL S 306.
Communications^The Creative Advantage The Creative Advantage COM 318 The Creative Advantage (5) I&S N. RIVENBURGHDraws on research related to cognition, communication, and creativity to train students in the design and application of problem-solving approaches to complex community and organizational challenges. Emphasizes the benefits of diversity and collaboration in the design of innovative solutions.
Communications^Advanced Public Speaking Advanced Public Speaking COM 320 Advanced Public Speaking (5) VLPA/I&SPractice in preparation and presentation of a variety of types of public speeches based on study of their structure and form; emphasis on organization and delivery.
Communications^Communications in International Relations Communications in International Relations COM 321 Communications in International Relations (5) I&SLooks at communications in relations between international groups and states. Examines the range of functions and roles communication media play in international affairs, global issues, and intergroup relations. Also examines the strategic use of communications by various groups. Offered: jointly with POL S 330.
Communications^Global Communication Global Communication COM 322 Global Communication (5) I&SIntroduction to the history, purpose, channels, content, technologies, policy, and regulation of international communications systems. Issues covered include disparities in media development between post-industrial and developing nations, imbalances in international news and information flow, and the emergence of global communications. Offered: jointly with POL S 329.
Communications^Rhetoric of Social and Political Movements Rhetoric of Social and Political Movements COM 329 Rhetoric of Social and Political Movements (5) VLPA/I&SInquiry into the rhetoric of social and political movements; emphasis on investigation of persuasive discourse; examination of the nonverbal symbols of persuasion.
Communications^Rhetoric of Science Rhetoric of Science COM 330 Rhetoric of Science (5) VLPA/I&S CeccarelliExamines how scientists use rhetoric to communicate with each other and with various publics, and now nonscientists use rhetoric to argue about science and its effects in the public sphere.
Communications^The Rhetorical Tradition in Western Thought The Rhetorical Tradition in Western Thought COM 331 The Rhetorical Tradition in Western Thought (5) VLPA/I&SAnalysis of the major theories that prescribe and describe the use of symbols to change attitudes and behavior. Principal emphasis is placed upon defining the nature and scope of rhetoric and upon analyzing the art's underlying assumptions about human beings as symbol users. Some background in history, philosophy, and literature is desirable.
Communications^History of Rhetoric History of Rhetoric COM 332 History of Rhetoric (5) VLPAInvestigates how rhetoric has been theorized and taught since antiquity. Focuses on key thinkers and texts in the rhetorical tradition. Students learn to describe rhetorical theories of key thinkers, explain how rhetoric was understood and practiced in different historical societies, and explain how beliefs about rhetoric have changed over time.
Communications^Contemporary Rhetorical Theory Contemporary Rhetorical Theory COM 333 Contemporary Rhetorical Theory (5) VLPAIntroduces major Western theories about the relationship between humans and their symbol systems. Emphasizes themes that have preoccupied 20th and 21st Century thinkers on the subject of rhetoric: the public, identity, ethics, difference, the "masses", and persuasion.
Communications^Essentials of Argument Essentials of Argument COM 334 Essentials of Argument (5) VLPA/I&SArgument as a technique in the investigation of social problems; evidence, proof, refutation, persuasion; training in argumentative speaking.
Communications^The Business of Media in the Digital Age The Business of Media in the Digital Age COM 339 The Business of Media in the Digital Age (5) I&S NeffExamines the production of media within changing social, technological, and economic contexts. Emphasizes how new technologies can change the market for media goods and media experiences and the ways in which mediated production pervades contemporary economic life.
Communications^History of Mass Communication History of Mass Communication COM 340 History of Mass Communication (5) I&SHistory and development of communication from prehistoric times; rise of mass media; political and economic context of newspapers, radio, film, and television.
Communications^Media Structure Media Structure COM 342 Media Structure (5) I&SIndustrial organization and culture; consumer and producer decisions; public policy toward media; workforce and unions. Media role in culture and political economy.
Communications^Effects of Mass Communication Effects of Mass Communication COM 343 Effects of Mass Communication (5) I&SEffects of mass communication on individuals and society. Relevant theories applied to research evidence, addressing such topics as effects of stereotypes, violent and sexual imagery, and persuasive messages on our knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors.
Communications^Interviewing Principles and Practices Interviewing Principles and Practices COM 351 Interviewing Principles and Practices (5) VLPA/I&SInterviewing principles and practices, with emphasis on information gathering, selection, and persuasive interviews. Purposes and types of interviews, structure of interviews, and influence of communication patterns on interview outcomes.
Communications^Writing for Mass Media Writing for Mass Media COM 359 Writing for Mass Media (5) I&STraining in gathering information through interviews and observation and from written record and other public sources. Practice in organizing and writing this information for presentation in a mass medium such as a newspaper, newsletter, or magazine. Offered: AWSpS.
Communications^Foundations of Multiplatform Journalism Foundations of Multiplatform Journalism COM 360 Foundations of Multiplatform Journalism (5) I&SIntroduces content creation, content curation, and audience-engagement techniques for journalists.
Communications^Advanced Multiplatform Journalism Advanced Multiplatform Journalism COM 361 Advanced Multiplatform Journalism (4) I&SAdvanced techniques in content creation, content curation, and audience engagement for journalists.
Communications^Community Journalism: News Lab Community Journalism: News Lab COM 362 Community Journalism: News Lab (5) I&SContent creation and content curation for communication news partners.
Communications^Entrepreneurial Journalism Practicum Entrepreneurial Journalism Practicum COM 363 Entrepreneurial Journalism Practicum (5) I&SRequires students to identify a target audience in order to determine the kinds of multimedia news and feature content that meet informational needs of that audience; to create and distribute that content; and to encourage and assess audience response.
Communications^Journalism in a Diverse Society Journalism in a Diverse Society COM 364 Journalism in a Diverse Society (5)Examines important cultural roles of journalists in a society that is increasingly diverse. Students examine their own values, apply knowledge of stereotyping, respect for authentic voices of sources, and an understanding of cultural differences in creating journalistic content. May not be repeated if a grade of 0.7 earned.
Communications^Communication in Small Groups Communication in Small Groups COM 373 Communication in Small Groups (5) VLPA/I&SDiscussion as an everyday community activity, with emphasis on the informal cooperative decision-making methods of committee, conference, and roundtable groups.
Communications^Perspectives on Language Perspectives on Language COM 374 Perspectives on Language (5) VLPA/I&SStudy of language and meaning, and survey of several influential modern approaches, including the semantic, general semantic, behavioral, and analytic philosophical. Relates theories of language and meaning to the study of speech communication.
Communications^Communication Ethics Communication Ethics COM 375 Communication Ethics (5) VLPA/I&SEthical problems in interpersonal and public speech communication. Alternative ways of evaluating and responding to moral problems in a variety of communication situations.
Communications^Nonverbal Communication Nonverbal Communication COM 376 Nonverbal Communication (5) VLPA/I&SReviews the nature of nonverbal communication as part of the human message system. Discusses research on the types of cues that are part of the nonverbal system, reviews some communicative functions allowed by nonverbal cues (e.g., emotional expressions, relational messages, deception, coordination, or interaction), and ties nonverbal communication to language.
Communications^Content Analysis Content Analysis COM 381 Content Analysis (5)Introduces content analysis, a research method used in the discipline of communication. Students work in groups to design and execute a content analysis.
Communications^Social Scientific Approaches to Communication Research Social Scientific Approaches to Communication Research COM 382 Social Scientific Approaches to Communication Research (5) I&SComprehensive introduction to research methods employed in basic and applied communication research, including sample surveys, content analysis, experimentation, and elementary statistics.
Communications^Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media COM 389 Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media (5) I&S, DIVIntroduction to media representations of gender, race, and sexuality. Offered: jointly with AES 389/GWSS 389.
Communications^Communication Internship Communication Internship COM 395 Communication Internship (1-2, max. 4)Faculty-supervised study of communication principles in internship contexts. Readings to aid students in observations of communication concepts combined with individualized reading structured around topics of interest for each student.
Communications^Telecommunication Policy and Convergent Media Telecommunication Policy and Convergent Media COM 401 Telecommunication Policy and Convergent Media (5) I&SExamines contemporary media and telecommunications industries since 1980 and their accelerating convergence. Attention given to economic, policy, and mass use issues. Review of major industry leaders, promising technologies, and new services. Social issues, government initiatives, and new legislation covered for both North American and international markets.
Communications^Communication Technology and Politics Communication Technology and Politics COM 407 Communication Technology and Politics (5) I&SEmploys some core concepts of political communication and theories of democracy to examine the emerging role of information and communication technologies in candidate and issue campaigning; online voting; protest and advocacy movements; law-making and electronic governance in the United States and internationally. Offered: jointly with POL S 451.
Communications^Political Communication Seminar Political Communication Seminar COM 411 Political Communication Seminar (5, max. 10) I&SContemporary topics studying how communication affects citizen engagement with public life. Offered: jointly with POL S 454.
Communications^Mass Media and Public Opinion Mass Media and Public Opinion COM 414 Mass Media and Public Opinion (5) I&SExamines the foundations of the idea of public opinion in a democratic environment and the role of mass communication in the organization, implementation, and control of that opinion. Considers these relationships from the perspectives of societal elites, media, and citizens. Offered: jointly with POL S 452.
Communications^Political Deliberation Political Deliberation COM 417 Political Deliberation (5) I&SExploration of philosophical and empirical writings on political deliberation in small groups, campaigns, and other public settings. Contemporary deliberative theory. Participation in face-to-face discussions on current issues. Offered: jointly with POL S 455.
Communications^Communications and the Environment Communications and the Environment COM 418 Communications and the Environment (5) I&SExamines the role of mass media in the resolution of environmental problems. Topics include strengths and weaknesses of media coverage, use of media by environmental groups and government agencies, media effects on public opinion, and mass communication and social movements. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 418.
Communications^Comparative Media Systems Comparative Media Systems COM 420 Comparative Media Systems (5) I&SProvides students an understanding of policies that shape national communication processes and systems. Uses comparative analysis to identify both similarities and differences among media structures of nations at different levels of development. Primary emphasis on broadcast media. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 419/POL S 468.
Communications^Communication and Social Change Communication and Social Change COM 423 Communication and Social Change (5) I&SExamines both theory and application involved in using communications media as a tool for addressing political, social, and economic development issues. Utilizes a case study approach to look at localized applications of traditional and new communications tools in the pursuit of sustainable development.
Communications^European Media Systems European Media Systems COM 425 European Media Systems (5) I&SExamines media systems in selected countries in Europe and policy issues that link (or divide) members of the European Union and other major media producers. Media studied in context of the contemporary economic, social, political, and cultural milieu in which they operate. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 425.
Communications^International Media Images International Media Images COM 426 International Media Images (5) I&SWays in which media construct images of international peoples and events. Develops a set of critical tools for assessing media portrayals of international affairs and cultures.
Communications^The Media and Peace The Media and Peace COM 428 The Media and Peace (5) I&SInvestigates the complex relationships among the media, journalistic practice, and our understanding and pursuit of peace. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 428.
Communications^Rhetorical Criticism Rhetorical Criticism COM 431 Rhetorical Criticism (5) VLPA/I&SStudy of approaches to rhetorical inquiry that aid in the description, analysis, interpretation, and evaluation of discourse. Applies various critical models to a chosen artifact.
Communications^Historic American Public Address Historic American Public Address COM 435 Historic American Public Address (5) VLPA/I&SRhetorical criticism of historical public speeches, essays, and declarations. Includes readings of public texts in their historical and political context to increase understanding of those texts, their rhetorical construction, and the culture from which they arose. Covers the beginnings of the nation to the middle of the twentieth century.
Communications^Contemporary American Public Address Contemporary American Public Address COM 436 Contemporary American Public Address (5) VLPA/I&SRhetorical criticism of contemporary public messages. Includes reading of public texts in their context to increase understanding of those texts, their rhetorical construction, and the culture from which they arose. Covers mid-twentieth century to the present.
Communications^Mass Media Law Mass Media Law COM 440 Mass Media Law (5) I&SSurvey of laws and regulations that affect the print and broadcast media. Includes material on First Amendment, libel, invasion of privacy, freedom of information, copyright, obscenity, advertising and broadcast regulation, and matters relating to press coverage of the judicial system. Offered: jointly with POL S 461.
Communications^United States Media History United States Media History COM 441 United States Media History (5) I&SDevelopment of mass communication in the United States with emphasis on role of mass media in politics, economics, gender, and race.
Communications^History of Media Technology and Regulation History of Media Technology and Regulation COM 442 History of Media Technology and Regulation (5) I&SImpact of pre-1980s media technologies - printing, telecommunications, broadcasting, photography, and more - on individuals and institutions, especially government, business, and the mass media. How laws and policies have changed to govern new media forms.
Communications^Indigenous Films, Sovereign Visions Indigenous Films, Sovereign Visions COM 443 Indigenous Films, Sovereign Visions (5) VLPA/I&S D. HART, L. ROSSExplores fiction, documentary, experimental film, and digital media by indigenous artists from around the world. Focuses on personal, political, and cultural expression. Issues include media and sovereignty movements, political economy, language revitalization, the politics of decolonization, and indigenous aesthetics. Offered: jointly with AIS 443.
Communications^Public Relations and Society Public Relations and Society COM 444 Public Relations and Society (5) I&SOverview of issues, strategies, and role of public relations professionals in various areas of American society, including media relations, government relations, community affairs, and consumer relations.
Communications^Journalism and Literature Journalism and Literature COM 445 Journalism and Literature (5) VLPA/I&SExplores the relationship between journalism and fiction writing in the United States. Examines writers who began their careers as journalists and forged a fiction-writing philosophy related to what they learned in journalism. Readings in fiction and journalism.
Communications^International Communication Law and Policy International Communication Law and Policy COM 450 International Communication Law and Policy (5) I&SExamines how several countries and international bodies regulate communication. Specific topics shift with developments in the news, but include some mix of government censorship, libel, privacy, hate speech, advertising, obscenity, protection of children form harmful content, and regulation of new media.
Communications^Mass Media and Culture Mass Media and Culture COM 451 Mass Media and Culture (5) VLPA/I&SEmpirical and theoretical framework for analyzing role of mass media in cultural change. Historical and contemporary cases consider ethnic, gender, class, and urban-rural conflicts and cultural roles of sports, elections, and national rituals. Focus on visual electronic media.
Communications^Crisis Communications Crisis Communications COM 452 Crisis Communications (5) I&SStudy of the functions of communications professionals during crises. Covers public relations professionals as advocates for organizations and companies in crisis and the news media as advocates of the mass public. Discussion of cases.
Communications^Journalism Portfolio Journalism Portfolio COM 457 Journalism Portfolio (1) I&SStudents assemble an online portfolio of academic, professional, and creative work. The portfolio project serves as vehicle for students to engage in self-assessment about their professional and academic growth and to assist them in career planning. May not be repeated if a grade of 0.7 earned.
Communications^Reporting Global Issues Reporting Global Issues COM 458 Reporting Global Issues (5, max. 10) I&S, DIVPracticum in the journalism that examines or localizes international trends or international developments in one or more of the following subject areas: health, medicine, science, politics, environment, culture, demographics, or business. Focus of course varies by term.
Communications^Narrative Journalism Narrative Journalism COM 459 Narrative Journalism (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduces the rigorous reporting and literary writing techniques of narrative journalism. Concentrates on producing nonfiction narrative articles for publication. Offered: jointly with CHID 459.
Communications^Special Reporting Topics Special Reporting Topics COM 460 Special Reporting Topics (4, max. 8) I&STopics vary.
Communications^Computer-Assisted Journalism Computer-Assisted Journalism COM 461 Computer-Assisted Journalism (5) I&SIntroduction to computer-assisted journalism and other advanced reporting techniques. Includes hands-on electronic data analysis, exploration of on-line investigative tools, and the fashioning of electronically-retrieved information into news stories. Students examine ethical and technical challenges these tools present to media and society. Prerequsite: COM 360.
Communications^Copy Editing and Design Copy Editing and Design COM 463 Copy Editing and Design (5) I&SFocuses on editing copy for multiplatform journalism, covering grammar and style, production methods, news criteria, accuracy, Search Engine Optimization - aware headlines and summaries, as well as design and editing considerations for online, mobile, and print presentation.
Communications^Writing with Voice Writing with Voice COM 464 Writing with Voice (5) VLPAFocuses on point-of-view writing that challenges assumptions of the omniscient voice and pushes traditional journalist boundaries. Students are encouraged to experiment with transparency and authenticity in their tone and - through a series of written assignments - explore points of intersection between their own experiences and larger issues.
Communications^Legislative Reporting Legislative Reporting COM 465 Legislative Reporting (12) I&SCoverage of Washington legislature for a daily newspaper. Selected students live in Olympia, interview legislative delegations, report on committee and floor sessions, and attend and report on gubernatorial and other press conferences.
Communications^Digital Journalism Digital Journalism COM 466 Digital Journalism (5) I&S A. ChanIntroduction to digital journalism. Integrates web design, video, still, and sound to develop an Internet Webcast called DIA (Digital Interactive) News. Students serve as sole initiator of DIA news, utilizing journalistic standard of storytelling, video production, and editing and design.
Communications^Feature Writing Feature Writing COM 467 Feature Writing (5) VLPAFocuses on the many types of newspaper and magazine articles that do not fall into the category of hard news, including histories and backgrounders, how-to and explanatory, consumer information, statistical pieces, first-person, and participatory. Includes practice in writing these forms. How to market freelance manuscripts.
Communications^Media Ethics Media Ethics COM 468 Media Ethics (5) I&S SimpsonExplores ethical issues and ethical decision-making as they pertain to journalistic and media practices. Offered: ASp.
Communications^Intellectual Foundations of American Journalism Intellectual Foundations of American Journalism COM 469 Intellectual Foundations of American Journalism (5) I&SExamines the thinkers and philosophers who have influenced modern journalism. Studies the main ideas in the development of world thought and their impact on today's journalists. Explores the role communications systems have played in the creation of the world's cultures.
Communications^Discourse: Analyzing Talk and Texts Discourse: Analyzing Talk and Texts COM 470 Discourse: Analyzing Talk and Texts (5) VLPA/I&SA critical and practical introduction to contemporary theories/methods in discourse analysis: how verbal communication (together with visual communication) is used in conversational talk and mediatized texts to construct identities and relationships; and how power and ideology are reproduced through these everyday social interactions. Offered: jointly with LING 470.
Communications^Persuasion Persuasion COM 471 Persuasion (5) VLPA/I&SAnalysis of the ways in which beliefs, values, attitudes, and behavior are deliberately influenced through communication.
Communications^Empirical Approaches to Interpersonal Communication Empirical Approaches to Interpersonal Communication COM 472 Empirical Approaches to Interpersonal Communication (5) I&SExamination of theories and research on the development and deterioration of interpersonal relationships. Emphasis on the nature of interpersonal interaction, the role of language and nonverbal communication in relationships, functional and dysfunctional interaction patterns, and the dynamics of interpersonal networks.
Communications^Discussion Leadership Discussion Leadership COM 473 Discussion Leadership (3) VLPA/I&SCritical analysis of leadership in committee and conference, with emphasis on the development of speech effectiveness in the cooperative achievement of goals.
Communications^Communication, Conflict, and Cooperation Communication, Conflict, and Cooperation COM 474 Communication, Conflict, and Cooperation (5) VLPA/I&SRole of communication in resolving informal conflicts and in facilitating interpersonal and intergroup cooperation. Review of empirical literature. In-class simulations and exercises.
Communications^Organizational Communication Organizational Communication COM 475 Organizational Communication (5) VLPA/I&SRole of communication in organizations, the types of problems arising, and approaches to their resolution. Communication in the human relations and productivity of organizations. Applying communication skills in various organization roles.
Communications^Intercultural Communication Intercultural Communication COM 478 Intercultural Communication (5) I&SInvestigates intercultural communication theory and its application for varying levels of human interaction: interpersonal, intergroup, and international.
Communications^Communication in Adolescent Environments Communication in Adolescent Environments COM 480 Communication in Adolescent Environments (5) VLPA/I&SStudy of the communication process in youth environments with a primary focus on formal and informal learning. Includes critical analysis of communication in contemporary instructional settings and the development of communication strategies for teaching and learning.
Communications^Interpersonal Media Interpersonal Media COM 482 Interpersonal Media (5) I&SExamines the relationships and groups formed through digital social media. Focuses on how people manage interactions and identities, develop interpersonal relationships, engage in collaboration and conflict, and develop communities in online environments. Involves both the study and use of network-based computer-mediated systems.
Communications^Cultural Codes in Communication Cultural Codes in Communication COM 484 Cultural Codes in Communication (5) VLPA/I&SSocial and cultural codes in interpersonal communication, with special reference to contemporary American subcultural groups and their communication patterns.
Communications^Fieldwork in Communication Studies Fieldwork in Communication Studies COM 485 Fieldwork in Communication Studies (5) VLPA/I&STheory and practice of participant observation, intensive interviewing, and discourse analysis in the study of communicative practices.
Communications^Communication and Culture in Rome: Study Abroad Communication and Culture in Rome: Study Abroad COM 486 Communication and Culture in Rome: Study Abroad (12) VLPA/I&SExplores the historical and contemporary connections between Rome culture and communication. Through intensive fieldwork abroad, students acquire skills of observation and understanding that can be applied to navigate intercultural experiences and reflect on their influence on various interactions.
Communications^Race, Gender, and Power in Asian American Media Race, Gender, and Power in Asian American Media COM 488 Race, Gender, and Power in Asian American Media (5) I&S, DIVExamines the cultural, political, and social facets of Asian American media since 1915 within such key issues as racial and sexist stereotypes, white privilege and hegemony, identity, and agency and empowerment. Informed by critical theories of race and ethnicity.
Communications^Black Cultural Studies Black Cultural Studies COM 489 Black Cultural Studies (5) I&SExamines how images of blackness have been (re)constructed through identity formation and entrenched inequality. Topics include black women's bodies, black men's bodies, blackface minstrelsy, black queer studies, black power, and black hybridities. Offered: jointly with AES 489/GWSS 489.
Communications^Representing Beyond the Binaries: Mixing Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media Representing Beyond the Binaries: Mixing Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media COM 490 Representing Beyond the Binaries: Mixing Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Media (5) I&S, DIV JoesephCultural studies approach to examining the mixed formations that race, sexuality, and gender take in the contemporary United States media. Draws upon multi-disciplinary scholarship in examination of the media. Offered: jointly with AES 490/GWSS 486.
Communications^Publication Design Publication Design COM 491 Publication Design (5) I&S RatheProvides basic theories of design for newspapers, magazines, and their online counterparts. Introduces a computer layout program. Areas of study include typography, photo editing, print production, and the page design process. Stresses journalistic standards of writing, reporting, and ethics.
Communications^Re-Conceptualizing Communication and Difference Abroad Re-Conceptualizing Communication and Difference Abroad COM 492 Re-Conceptualizing Communication and Difference Abroad (6) VLPA/I&SRe-thinking narratives of race, beauty, intelligence, culture, politics, and power while immersed in a new culture. Methodological, theoretical, and epistemological skills that cultural studies scholars use to "read" culture. Interviews, participant observations, and critical examination of newspapers, television programs, billboards, brochures, etc.
Communications^Visual Communication Visual Communication COM 493 Visual Communication (5) I&SIntroduces basic theories of visual communication as well as the science of how humans sees and perceive; also, history and terminology of subject areas such as typography, photography, informational graphics, cartoons, and graphic design. Students create project using current computer design programs,
Communications^Careers in Communication Careers in Communication COM 494 Careers in Communication (1)Helps students prepare for careers in communication. Focuses on identification of key skills, creating an effective resume, articulating interests and experience, doing informational interviews, and creating a professional-style web profile and website.
Communications^Special Topics in Communication Special Topics in Communication COM 495 Special Topics in Communication (2-5, max. 15)Lecture, seminar, and/or team study. Topics vary.
Communications^Honors Seminar Honors Seminar COM 496 Honors Seminar (5) VLPA/I&SPreparation for researching and writing senior honors thesis.
Communications^Honors Thesis Honors Thesis COM 497 Honors Thesis (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&SResearching and writing honors thesis.
Communications^Independent Research Independent Research COM 498 Independent Research (1-5, max. 10)Work on research projects designed and conducted by undergraduate students.
Communications^Directed Research Directed Research COM 499 Directed Research (1-5, max. 10)Work on research projects designed by faculty members.
Communications^Communication Theory Development Communication Theory Development COM 500 Communication Theory Development (5)Covers the philosophy behind theory development, discusses the basic components of theories, and reviews significant theoretical contributions in communication from social scientific and humanistic traditions. Introduces students to the process of conceptualization and theory design through reading and discussion of relevant bodies of communication scholarship.
Communications^Methods of Inquiry Methods of Inquiry COM 501 Methods of Inquiry (5)Overviews some of the most important methods of inquiry used to investigate communication phenomena. Includes textual criticism, content analysis, ethnography, experimentation, survey research, and historical approaches. Explores the utility of different methods for investigating research topics, defining and measuring concepts, reading texts, and investigating theories.
Communications^Communication Scholarship and Public Life Communication Scholarship and Public Life COM 502 Communication Scholarship and Public Life (5)Examines potential connections between communication scholarship and government, markets, civil society, and the general public.
Communications^Interdisciplinary Communication Theory Interdisciplinary Communication Theory COM 507 Interdisciplinary Communication Theory (5)Introduces students to challenges, benefits, and processes of interdisciplinary research. Explores formation of disciplinary boundaries. Considers significant theories that have influenced communication research. Considers how synthetic theoretical arguments are made and how to integrate work from fields with different epistemologies.
Communications^Collaboration and Scholarship Collaboration and Scholarship COM 509 Collaboration and Scholarship (5)Examines the collaborative research process. Students identify and conceptualize a group project, carry it out, and present findings. Topic varies.
Communications^Content Analysis Content Analysis COM 511 Content Analysis (5)Content analysis as a technique for making inferences from texts. Includes quantitative, qualitative, and computer-assisted approaches to analysis.
Communications^Critical, Social, and Practice-Based Approaches Critical, Social, and Practice-Based Approaches COM 512 Critical, Social, and Practice-Based Approaches (5)Explores approaches to communication research developed from understandings of human communication as inherently social, grounded in tool-mediated action, and interwoven with power relations. Covers a range of theories that are associated with these approaches, and the implications of these theories for methods of data collection and analysis.
Communications^Fieldwork Research Methods Fieldwork Research Methods COM 513 Fieldwork Research Methods (5-, max. 10)Methods of fieldwork research in communication studies, with emphasis on participant observation, ethnography, and discourse analysis.
Communications^Critical Discourse Analysis Critical Discourse Analysis COM 514 Critical Discourse Analysis (5) VLPAIntroduction to systematic analysis of linguistic and visual discourse in face-to-face and mediatized talk and texts; critical examination of the reproduction of power, control, and ideology through linguistic and related semiotic practices of everyday life.
Communications^Rhetorical Criticism Rhetorical Criticism COM 515 Rhetorical Criticism (5)History and method of rhetorical criticism. Application of critical standards to various rhetorical artifacts.
Communications^Descriptive and Analytic Communication Research Methods Descriptive and Analytic Communication Research Methods COM 516 Descriptive and Analytic Communication Research Methods (5)Development of the historical approach to communications research. Study of historical methods, bibliography, and criticism.
Communications^Survey Research Survey Research COM 517 Survey Research (5)Faculty-directed project in survey research in which basic principles of survey design, including sampling, observation, measurement, data analysis, and data interpretation, are all applied.
Communications^Cultural Studies Methods Cultural Studies Methods COM 518 Cultural Studies Methods (5)Explores the history and methods of cultural studies. Introduces major debates in the field. Applies cultural studies methods to various artifacts.
Communications^Visual Cultural Studies Methods Visual Cultural Studies Methods COM 519 Visual Cultural Studies Methods (5)Explores the history and methods of visual culture. Introduces major debates in the field. Applies visual cultural studies methods to various artifacts.
Communications^Statistical Methods in Communication Statistical Methods in Communication COM 520 Statistical Methods in Communication (5)Reviews the steps taken in social scientific research on communication, with emphasis on the conceptualization, operationalization, and analysis of quantifiable variables. Highlights understanding of computer application of univariate and bivariate statistics, focusing on both parametric and nonparametric tests.
Communications^Advanced Statistical Methods in Communication Advanced Statistical Methods in Communication COM 521 Advanced Statistical Methods in Communication (4)Discusses complexities in quantitative research on communication. Focus on multivariate data design and analysis, including multiple and logistic regression, ANOVA and MANOVA, and factor analysis.
Communications^Global Communication Research Methods Global Communication Research Methods COM 527 Global Communication Research Methods (5)Methodological issues particular to the design or analysis of research that deals with data from different countries, cultures, or sub-cultures.
Communications^Designing Internet Research Designing Internet Research COM 528 Designing Internet Research (5)Focuses on designing Internet research, assessing the adaptation of proven methods to Internet tools and environments, and developing new methods in view of particular capacities and characteristics of Internet applications. Legal and ethical aspects of Internet research receive ongoing consideration.
Communications^Research Strategy and Business Practice Research Strategy and Business Practice COM 529 Research Strategy and Business Practice (5)Empowers students to resolve business debates with empirical findings. Students learn to match research method to question, design valid instruments of data collection, use software to test significance of differences, construct graphs following principles of infosthetics, and ensure persuasiveness of data by defending against common research criticisms. Offered: WSp.
Communications^Philosophical Issues in Rhetorical and Communication Theory Philosophical Issues in Rhetorical and Communication Theory COM 530 Philosophical Issues in Rhetorical and Communication Theory (5)Survey of selected philosophical controversies among speech communication theorists, and analysis of one philosopher's approach to communication. Topics include paradigm descriptions of communication, rhetoric and knowledge, linguistic analysis and communication, hermeneutics and dialogue.
Communications^Rhetoric in Society Rhetoric in Society COM 531 Rhetoric in Society (5)Selected works of major rhetorical theorists such as Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Campbell, Whately, Perelman, and Burke. Examines how rhetorical themes are responsive to and symptomatic of societal conditions and values.
Communications^Classical Rhetoric Classical Rhetoric COM 532 Classical Rhetoric (5)Development of the classical tradition in rhetorical theory, criticism, and pedagogy from the sophists to Augustine; analysis of the contributions of major figures and works to that tradition.
Communications^Studies in Contemporary Rhetoric Studies in Contemporary Rhetoric COM 534 Studies in Contemporary Rhetoric (5)Critical analysis of theories of twentieth-century rhetoric.
Communications^Critical Theory Applications in Communication Critical Theory Applications in Communication COM 535 Critical Theory Applications in Communication (5)Major approaches in critical theory: Marxism, psychoanalysis, structuralism, and semiology. Synthesizes these approaches by viewing the "cultural studies' ' tradition. Assesses critical theory through empirical study of network television in the United States and the United Kingdom.
Communications^Leadership Through Story and Communities Leadership Through Story and Communities COM 536 Leadership Through Story and Communities (5) CroftsConsiders how digital media have amplified key tenets of classical leadership scholarship, challenged more traditional models of communication, and facilitated the ability to create and connect to communities and networks in new forms of outreach and meaningful engagement. Offered: W.
Communications^Theories and Criticism of Communication Technologies Theories and Criticism of Communication Technologies COM 538 Theories and Criticism of Communication Technologies (5)Potential of the computer for use in behavioral science.
Communications^Theories of Technology and Society Theories of Technology and Society COM 539 Theories of Technology and Society (5) Foot, Howard, Neff, ParksProvides an theoretical foundation for study in the area of communication technology and society by examining different contemporary theories of the social, political, and cultural implications of technological change. Takes a broad view of theories of communication innovations, tools, and technologies - including historical, critical, and comparative approaches.
Communications^The Rhetoric of Science The Rhetoric of Science COM 540 The Rhetoric of Science (5)Examines selected topics in the rhetoric of science, underscoring the interplay of language, situation, culture, and prior tradition in the quest for exact knowledge of the natural world. Scrutinizes scientific communication in intradisciplinary, interdisciplinary, and extradisciplinary contexts.
Communications^Readings in Communication History Readings in Communication History COM 542 Readings in Communication History (5)Selected readings on the history of communication.
Communications^Research Seminar in Historic and Contemporary Communication Research Seminar in Historic and Contemporary Communication COM 543 Research Seminar in Historic and Contemporary Communication (5)Topical research seminar in historic and contemporary communication.
Communications^Development of Mass Communication Development of Mass Communication COM 545 Development of Mass Communication (5)Institutions of mass communication. Political and social roles.
Communications^Narratives and Networks in Digital Media Narratives and Networks in Digital Media COM 546 Narratives and Networks in Digital Media (5)Students create their own channel and network engagement strategy; understand key communication and social changes facilitated by digital media through networks; practice creating powerful narrative through storytelling as a primary method of influence and persuasion; and describe and assess characteristics of networks and their role in sustaining engagement. Offered: A.
Communications^Telecommunications Policy and Convergent Media Telecommunications Policy and Convergent Media COM 547 Telecommunications Policy and Convergent Media (5)Structures and policies governing the functioning of communication technologies and data flow: United States and international perspectives. Interdisciplinary approach.
Communications^Economics of Digital Communication Economics of Digital Communication COM 548 Economics of Digital Communication (5)Critically examines the impact of the Internet and digital technologies on the economy. Focus includes third world countries as well as the United States and other industrialized countries.
Communications^Mass Communication Process and Effects Mass Communication Process and Effects COM 549 Mass Communication Process and Effects (5)Analytic approach to conceptualization and research in the field since 1900.
Communications^European Union Information Society Policy European Union Information Society Policy COM 550 European Union Information Society Policy (5) GiffardAnalysis of European Union policy and regulatory documents relating to cultural, economic, political, social, and technological aspects of the new information society, including efforts to promote transborder flows of television programs in Europe.
Communications^Political Communication Political Communication COM 551 Political Communication (5)Surveys classic works and new directions in political communication, including functionalist, structuralist, constructivist, network, and comparative approaches, reflecting a range of methods. Examines political organizing, electoral and legislative processes, civic (dis)engagement, media and politics, public deliberation and opinion formation, political identify and discourse. Offered: jointly with POL S 551.
Communications^Social Construction of News Social Construction of News COM 552 Social Construction of News (5) BeamExamines social, political, economic, technological, and cultural influences on the news. Identifies constraints on journalists and explores how those constraints shape the news and information that journalists and media organizations produce.
Communications^Public Opinion and Communication Public Opinion and Communication COM 553 Public Opinion and Communication (5)Conceptual and methodological approaches to public opinion and communication as historical and behavioral phenomena. United States and international perspectives.
Communications^Discourse and the Politics of Resistance Discourse and the Politics of Resistance COM 554 Discourse and the Politics of Resistance (5)Examines how disciplines theorize and empirically study discourse in the politics of resistance. Examines the discursive turn in U.S. and European "new" social movement theory. Ranges across disciplines, such as political sociology, cultural anthropology and human geography, to discover ways in which discourse is conceptualized and studied for its role in seeding social change. Offered: jointly with POL S 567.
Communications^Political Deliberation Political Deliberation COM 555 Political Deliberation (5) GastilExploration of deliberative theories of democracy and research on political discussion in campaigns, face-to-face meetings, on-line forums, and informal conversations. Presents different uses and understandings of deliberation and its role in democratic governance. Offered: jointly with POL S 558.
Communications^Political Communication Research Practicum: Community, Communication, and Civic Engagement Political Communication Research Practicum: Community, Communication, and Civic Engagement COM 556 Political Communication Research Practicum: Community, Communication, and Civic Engagement (5)Overview of the research process, including literature review, hypothesis generation, data gathering, empirical analysis, and writing for publication Topics vary with instructor, but generally address questions of how communication affects democracy and citizen engagement in national or international contests. Offered: jointly with POL S 594.
Communications^Government and Mass Communication Government and Mass Communication COM 557 Government and Mass Communication (5)Legal problems of mass communication, institutions, and media operations.
Communications^Law and Policy Law and Policy COM 558 Law and Policy (5)Examines the existing frameworks that govern how organizations and end users approach free expression, intellectual property, privacy, security, and advertising. Provides students with practical guidance for applying these frameworks to news, entertainment, social media, and digital media environments. Offered: WSp.
Communications^Media and Foreign Policy Media and Foreign Policy COM 559 Media and Foreign Policy (5)The role of communications media in how nations interact. The media as source, actor, and catalyst in international affairs. Interdisciplinary focus.
Communications^Regional Communication Systems Regional Communication Systems COM 561 Regional Communication Systems (5)Communication as a factor in economic, sociocultural, and political relations among nations of a region. Focus varies with specialization of instructor. Consult graduate secretary for details. Interdisciplinary focus.
Communications^International Communication Systems International Communication Systems COM 562 International Communication Systems (5)International communications and contemporary issues that affect the functioning of global communication systems. Interdisciplinary focus.
Communications^Black Cultural Studies Black Cultural Studies COM 563 Black Cultural Studies (5)Takes a critical approach to studying media representations of blackness. Drawing upon traditions in African studies and cultural studies, students engage through theory and practice by presenting on academic works, historicizing events, and unpacking cultural texts.
Communications^Media, Myth, and Ritual Media, Myth, and Ritual COM 564 Media, Myth, and Ritual (5) DouglasExamines the way media operate in a secular society with many of the characteristics that traditionally have been imputed to spirituality and religion. Analyzes media's mythological and ritualistic function in society by taking an interdisciplinary approach informed by religious studies, cultural studies, journalism, and communication theory.
Communications^Mass Media Structure Mass Media Structure COM 565 Mass Media Structure (5)Research on the structural aspects of mass communication.
Communications^Discourse and Sex/uality Discourse and Sex/uality COM 566 Discourse and Sex/uality (5)Seminar-based analysis of discourse and social construction of eroticism/desire in face-to-face/mediatized talk and texts; examination of the reproduction of power, control, and ideology through the linguistic and semiotic realization of sex/uality. Offered: jointly with GWSS 566.
Communications^Gender, Race, and Communication Gender, Race, and Communication COM 567 Gender, Race, and Communication (5)Analysis of the role of media in the construction of reality, production processes, and their influence on media representation of women and people of color. Offered: jointly with GWSS 589.
Communications^Mobile Communication and Digital Media Mobile Communication and Digital Media COM 568 Mobile Communication and Digital Media (5)Explores impact of mobile technology on social, political, civic, and business spheres. Strategizes how to make "mobile" an integrated part of a broader media strategy.
Communications^Communication Strategies in Virtual Worlds and Games Communication Strategies in Virtual Worlds and Games COM 569 Communication Strategies in Virtual Worlds and Games (5)Analyzes potential configurations made possible by interactivity and simulation in virtual worlds and games. Explores applications of this communication medium to education, literacy, and business.
Communications^Organizational Communication Organizational Communication COM 570 Organizational Communication (5)Examination of social scientific theory and research on communication in organizations. Topics include quantitative and qualitative approaches to process of organizational communication, function and structure of macro networks, superior-subordinate relationships, and the role of communication in organizational change, development, and effectiveness.
Communications^Theories of Technology and Society Theories of Technology and Society COM 571 Theories of Technology and Society (5) Foot, Howard, Neff, ParksProvides a theoretical foundation for study in the area of communication technology and society by examining different contemporary theories of the social, political, and cultural implications of technological change. Takes a broad view of theories of communication innovations, tools, and technologies - including historical, critical, and comparative approaches.
Communications^Interpersonal Communication Interpersonal Communication COM 576 Interpersonal Communication (5)Social scientific research and theory on the role of communication in developing and maintaining interpersonal relationships. Nature of interpersonal communication, relationship change processes, interpersonal control through communication, and personal communication networks.
Communications^Communication in Small Groups Communication in Small Groups COM 577 Communication in Small Groups (5)Reviews major small group communication theories and the history of research on small groups. Topics include structuration, democratic decision making, symbolic convergence, and the influence of personality, gender, and ethnicity on group communication. Involves students in original research projects on communication in small group settings.
Communications^Intercultural Communications Intercultural Communications COM 578 Intercultural Communications (5) Manusov, RivenburghFocuses on the nature of communication between different cultures, including the processes as they occur on sojourns, immigration, negotiations, and conversations across national boundaries. Specific topics include identity formation and expression, intercultural relationships, stereotyping, prejudice, and group affiliation.
Communications^Nonverbal Communication Nonverbal Communication COM 580 Nonverbal Communication (5)Reviews primary theories and research on nonverbal communication. Focus on developmental and social aspects of nonverbal cues, including review of communicative functions served by nonverbal channels. Topics include paralinguistic systems, relational messages, deception, acquisition of cue use, and emotional expression. Emphasizes research methods and influences of culture and context.
Communications^Social Production and Distribution of Digital Content Social Production and Distribution of Digital Content COM 581 Social Production and Distribution of Digital Content (5) HoseinExplores theoretical and applied analysis of "user-generated" digital and distribution, as well as their economic cultural impact. Examines specific issues related to monetization and messaging, particularly in storytelling, advertising, campaigning, advocacy, and entertainment.
Communications^Communication Education Research Communication Education Research COM 582 Communication Education Research (5)Communication in instructional environments. Nature of instructional communication, paradigms for instructional communication research, quantitative and qualitative approaches to instructional communication, verbal and nonverbal classroom interaction.
Communications^Multimedia Storytelling Multimedia Storytelling COM 583 Multimedia Storytelling (5, max. 15)Uses videos, photos, audio, and text to communicate through narratives that can be accessed by a worldwide audience via social media distribution.
Communications^Ways of Speaking Ways of Speaking COM 584 Ways of Speaking (5)Theory and literature of the ethnography of communication, with special emphasis on the descriptive-comparative approach to culturally patterned styles of communicative conduct. Offered: jointly with ANTH 584.
Communications^Strategic Digital Platform Fundaments Strategic Digital Platform Fundaments COM 585 Strategic Digital Platform Fundaments (5)Examines the framework of social media applications. Introduces terminology, history, and evolution of website development and content management systems; elements of effective website design; and project management techniques needed to organize digital assets, allocate resources, and meet deadlines. Students gain a solid understanding of legacy and emerging technologies.
Communications^Advanced Content Creation, Curation, and Optimization Advanced Content Creation, Curation, and Optimization COM 586 Advanced Content Creation, Curation, and Optimization (5)Covers writing for the web and search engine optimization techniques. Explores the integration of social hooks, APIs, and introductory web programming. Students work to produce or redesign a website, complete with content plan, audience analysis and assumptions, and promotion plan.
Communications^Business Fundamentals in Digital Communications Business Fundamentals in Digital Communications COM 587 Business Fundamentals in Digital Communications (5)Focuses on business fundamentals within digital communications. Covers marketing and sales; finance and accounting (including ROI); and implementation. Students apply what they learn by building a business plan to gain understanding of the underlying issues facing business to develop relevant strategies and tactics in order to leverage the opportunities and challenges that digital media presents.
Communications^Digital Media Branding and Marketing Digital Media Branding and Marketing COM 588 Digital Media Branding and Marketing (5)Critically examines the role of advertising, marketing, and other promotional efforts in establishing the branding of digital media companies. By using communication theory to analyze successful cases of established and start-up digital media companies, participants identify practicable and effective strategies for brand building and enhancement.
Communications^Global Digital Media Law, Policy, and Ethics Global Digital Media Law, Policy, and Ethics COM 589 Global Digital Media Law, Policy, and Ethics (5)Examines the legal, social, political, and policy environments of digital media laws, policies, and ethics around the world. Offers a comparative perspective, which prepares digital media managers to expand into other markets outside their home bases.
Communications^Selected Readings Selected Readings COM 590 Selected Readings (1-5, max. 10)Selected readings assigned by faculty.
Communications^Independent Research Independent Research COM 591 Independent Research (1-5, max. 10)Research projects designed and led by students with faculty supervision.
Communications^Directed Research Directed Research COM 592 Directed Research (1-5, max. 10)Student participation in faculty-directed research projects.
Communications^Communication Internship Communication Internship COM 593 Communication Internship (1-5, max. 15)Provides students an opportunity to connect their scholarship with communities outside academia by engaging in a project that uses communication theory to inform practical work.
Communications^Professional Proseminar Professional Proseminar COM 594 Professional Proseminar (1, max. 6)Helps students develop a range of professional competencies. Focuses on a particular topic such as computer-assisted research, technology in the classroom, obtaining funding for research, writing for academic publication, career choices after graduate school, and ethics in research and teaching.
Communications^Public Speaking Pedagogy Public Speaking Pedagogy COM 595 Public Speaking Pedagogy (1, max. 5)Content and effective teaching skills for public speaking course. Emphasizes the rhetorical tradition, grading speeches, and facilitating oral critiques. Required for all COM 220 TAs; recommended for those who want to teach COM 220. Only 3 credits count toward degree.
Communications^Communication Pedagogy Communication Pedagogy COM 596 Communication Pedagogy (1, max. 3)Development of effective teaching and professional skills. Emphasizes interactive teaching, leading discussions, lecturing, planning courses, evaluating resource materials, grading and evaluation, teaching philosophies, and effective classroom management and communications. Required of all graduate students who accept teaching assistantships.
Communications^Special Topics in Communication Special Topics in Communication COM 597 Special Topics in Communication (3-5, max. 35)
Communications^Independent Study or Research Project Independent Study or Research Project COM 600 Independent Study or Research Project (*-)
Electrical Engineering^E The Digital World of Multimedia E The Digital World of Multimedia E E 135 The Digital World of Multimedia (4) NWIntroduces signal processing concepts behind multimedia creation, storage, and communication. Includes digitizing, decomposing, and modifying sounds and images; coding information for compression, errors, and security; and basics of network communication. Team-oriented labwork involves creating digital sounds and images using MATLAB, and experiments with streaming media technology.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Signal Conditioning E Introduction to Signal Conditioning E E 205 Introduction to Signal Conditioning (4) QSRIntroduces analog circuits interfacing sensors to digital systems. /includes connection, attenuation, amplification, sampling, filtering, termination, controls, Kirchhoff's Laws, sources, resistors, op amps, capacitors, inductors, PSice, and MATLAB. Intended for non-EE majors.
Electrical Engineering^E Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering E Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering E E 215 Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering (4) NWIntroduction to electrical engineering. Basic circuit and systems concepts. Mathematical models of components. Kirchhoff's laws. Resistors, sources, capacitors, inductors, and operational amplifiers. Solution of first and second order linear differential equations associated with basic circuit forms.
Electrical Engineering^E Circuit Theory E Circuit Theory E E 233 Circuit Theory (5)Electric circuit theory. Analysis of circuits with sinusoidal signals. Phasors, system functions, and complex frequency. Frequency response. Computer analysis of electrical circuits. Power and energy. Two port network theory. Laboratory in basic electrical engineering topics.
Electrical Engineering^E Continuous Time Linear Systems E Continuous Time Linear Systems E E 235 Continuous Time Linear Systems (5)Introduction to continuous time signal analysis. Basic signals including impulses, pulses, and unit steps. Periodic signals. Convolution of signals. Fourier series and transforms in discrete and continuous time. Computer laboratory.
Electrical Engineering^E Digital Circuits and Systems E Digital Circuits and Systems E E 271 Digital Circuits and Systems (5)Overview of digital computer systems. Digital logic, Boolean algebra, combinational and sequential circuits and logic design, programmable logic devices, and the design and operation of digital computers, including ALU, memory, and I/O. Weekly laboratories.
Electrical Engineering^E Introductory Topics in Electrical Engineering E Introductory Topics in Electrical Engineering E E 299 Introductory Topics in Electrical Engineering (1-5, max. 10) NWNew and experimental approaches to basic electrical engineering. May include design and construction projects.
Electrical Engineering^E Devices and Circuits I E Devices and Circuits I E E 331 Devices and Circuits I (5)Physics, characteristics, applications, analysis, and design of circuits using semiconductor diodes and field-effect transistors with an emphasis on large-signal behavior and digital logic circuits. Classroom concepts are reinforced through laboratory experiments and design exercises.
Electrical Engineering^E Devices and Circuits II E Devices and Circuits II E E 332 Devices and Circuits II (5)Characteristics of bipolar transistors, large- and small- signal models for bipolar and field effect transistors, linear circuit applications, including low and high frequency analysis of differential amplifiers, current sources, gain stages and output stages, internal circuitry of op-amps, op-amp configurations, op-amp stability and compensation. Weekly laboratory.
Electrical Engineering^E Discrete Time Linear Systems E Discrete Time Linear Systems E E 341 Discrete Time Linear Systems (5)Discrete time signals and systems, impulse response, convolution, Z-transforms, discrete time Fourier analysis. Computer laboratory.
Electrical Engineering^E Energy Systems E Energy Systems E E 351 Energy Systems (5)Develops understanding of modern energy systems through theory and analysis of the system and its components. Discussions of generation, transmission, and utilization are complemented by environmental and energy resources topics as well as electromechanical conversion, power electronics, electric safety, renewable energy, and electricity blackouts.
Electrical Engineering^E Applied Electromagnetics E Applied Electromagnetics E E 361 Applied Electromagnetics (5)Introductory electromagnetic field theory and Maxwell's equations in integral and differential forms; uniform plane waves in linear media; boundary conditions and reflection and transmission of waves; guided waves; transmission lines and Smith chart; electrostatics.
Electrical Engineering^E Design of Digital Circuits and Systems E Design of Digital Circuits and Systems E E 371 Design of Digital Circuits and Systems (5)Provides a theoretical background in, and practical experience with, tools, and techniques for modeling complex digital systems with the Verilog hardware description language, maintaining signal integrity, managing power consumption, and ensuring robust intra- and inter-system communication.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Technical Writing in Electrical Engineering E Advanced Technical Writing in Electrical Engineering E E 393 Advanced Technical Writing in Electrical Engineering (4)Develops formal technical writing skills for engineering students. Includes organization and structure of papers and reports, clear and concise technical language, choice of appropriate terminology, and an overview of common grammatical errors. Covers implementation of figures, equations, and literature citations, with specific recommendations for electrical engineers.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Professional Issues E Introduction to Professional Issues E E 398 Introduction to Professional Issues (1)Covers topics of interest to students planning their educational and professional path, including salaries, the value of advanced degrees, societal expectations of engineering professionals, the corporate enterprise, ethical dilemmas, patents and trade secrets, outsourcing, and the global market. Offered: AWSp.
Electrical Engineering^E Special Topics in Electrical Engineering E Special Topics in Electrical Engineering E E 399 Special Topics in Electrical Engineering (1-5, max. 10)New and experimental approaches to current electrical engineering problems. May include design and construction projects.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering E Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering E E 400 Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering (1-5, max. 10)Contemporary topics at the advanced undergraduate elective level. Faculty presents advanced elective topics not included in the established curriculum.
Electrical Engineering^E Engineering Design in Large Teams E Engineering Design in Large Teams E E 401 Engineering Design in Large Teams (4)Engineering design process, including project management, team formation, working with technical literature, concept development (e.g., brainstorming, morphological analysis, biomimetics, theory of inventive problem solving), intellectual property, high-tech ventures.
Electrical Engineering^E Engineering Design in Large Teams: Robotics II E Engineering Design in Large Teams: Robotics II E E 402 Engineering Design in Large Teams: Robotics II (5)Engineering design process applied to robot design. Involves project management, mentoring, marketing, and multi-disciplinary collaboration. The team designs, prototypes, manufactures, assembles, texts, modifies, troubleshoots, and learns to operate a system that competes in an international design contest.
Electrical Engineering^E Engineering Design for Outreach E Engineering Design for Outreach E E 406 Engineering Design for K-12 Outreach (3)Design process targeted toward development of relevant activities for K-12 audiences in such areas of science and engineering. Instruction in basic design process, design specification combined with an overview of relevant cognitive/social development in K-12.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer-Aided System Analysis and Design E Computer-Aided System Analysis and Design E E 415 Computer-Aided System Analysis and Design (3)Concepts, principles, and techniques concerned with the design, testing, and application of general-purpose problem-oriented computer programs for analyzing large-scale systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Random Signals for Communications and Signal Processing E Random Signals for Communications and Signal Processing E E 416 Random Signals for Communications and Signal Processing (4)Probability and random processes in communications. Random variables, distributions, and expectation. Statistical filter design for detection and estimation.
Electrical Engineering^E Modern Wireless Communications E Modern Wireless Communications E E 417 Modern Wireless Communications (4)Introduction to wireless networks as an application of basic communication theorems. Examines modulation techniques for digital communications, signal space, optimum receiver design, error performance, error control coding for high reliability, mulitpath fading and its effects, RF link budget analysis, WiFi and Wimax systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Network Security and Cryptography E Network Security and Cryptography E E 418 Network Security and Cryptography (3)Fundamental principles of cryptography and its application to network and communication security. An introduction to the fundamental tools in cryptography and the protocols that enable its application to network and communication security.
Electrical Engineering^E Design in Communications E Design in Communications E E 420 Design in Communications (4)Design projects in communications. Frequent projects solved by student teams. Reports and presentations.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Synthetic Biology E Introduction to Synthetic Biology E E 423 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3)Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology E Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology E E 424 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3)Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology.
Electrical Engineering^E Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology E Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology E E 425 Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology (4)Designs and builds transgenic bacterial using promoters and genes taken from a variety of organisms. Uses construction techniques including recombination, gene synthesis, and gene extraction. Evaluates designs using sequencing, fluorescence assays, enzyme activity assays, and single cell studies using time-lapse microscopy.
Electrical Engineering^E Analog Circuit Design E Analog Circuit Design E E 433 Analog Circuit Design (5)Design of analog circuits and systems applying modern integrated circuit technology: operational amplifiers, differential amplifiers, active filters, voltage references and regulators.
Electrical Engineering^E Medical Instrumentation E Medical Instrumentation E E 436 Medical Instrumentation (4)Introductory course in the application of instrumentation to medicine. Topics include transducers, signal-conditioning amplifiers, electrodes and electrochemistry, ultrasound systems, electrical safety, and the design of clinical electronics. Laboratory included. For upper-division and first-year graduate students preparing for careers in bioengineering - both research and industrial.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Digital Imaging Systems E Introduction to Digital Imaging Systems E E 440 Introduction to Digital Imaging Systems (4)Image representation and standards, visual perception and color spaces, spatial domain image filtering and enhancement, image restoration, image transforms, image and video coding, image geometrical transformation and camera modeling.
Electrical Engineering^E Digital Signals and Filtering E Digital Signals and Filtering E E 442 Digital Signals and Filtering (3)Methods and techniques for digital signal processing. Review of sampling theorems, A/D and D/A converters. Demodulation by quadrature sampling. Z-transform methods, system functions, linear shift-invariant systems, difference equations. Signal flow graphs for digital networks, canonical forms. Design of digital filters, practical considerations, IIR and FIR filters. Digital Fourier transforms and FFT techniques.
Electrical Engineering^E Design and Application of Digital Signal Processing E Design and Application of Digital Signal Processing E E 443 Design and Application of Digital Signal Processing (5)Application of learned theories/algorithms and available computer technologies to modern image and speech processing problems. Two-dimensional signals and systems. Image transform, enhancement, restoration, coding. Characteristics of speech signals, linear predictive coding (LPC) of speech, pitch detection, and LPC speech synthesis, speech recognition, hardware designs for signal processing.
Electrical Engineering^E Control System Analysis I E Control System Analysis I E E 447 Control System Analysis I (4)Linear Servomechanism theory and design principles. Pole-zero analysis, stability of feedback systems by root locus and real-frequency response methods. Design methods of Bode and Nichols. Introduction to advanced topics in automatic control theory, state variable methods.
Electrical Engineering^E Systems, Controls, and Robotics Capstone E Systems, Controls, and Robotics Capstone E E 448 Systems, Controls, and Robotics Capstone (4-)In-depth control engineering design experience in small design teams. Includes project planning and management, reporting, and technical communication. Student teams design, implement, test, and report on their project results, Includes lectures on selected topics, e.g., project management, intellectual property, and some control engineering topics.
Electrical Engineering^E Systems, Controls, and Robotics Capstone E Systems, Controls, and Robotics Capstone E E 449 Systems, Controls, and Robotics Capstone (-4)In-depth control engineering design experience in small design teams. Includes project planning and management, reporting, and technical communication. Student teams design, implement, test, and report on their project results, Includes lectures on selected topics, e.g., project management, intellectual property, and some control engineering topics.
Electrical Engineering^E Wind Energy E Wind Energy E E 451 Wind Energy (4)Covers the operation and modeling of wind energy, wind statistics, wind generators and converters, wind energy systems, challenges to wind energy development, impacts of wind energy on the power grid, and existing and potential solutions to wind energy integration.
Electrical Engineering^E Power Electronics Design E Power Electronics Design E E 452 Power Electronics Design (5)Electronic conversion and control of electrical power. Includes semiconductor switching devices, power converter circuits, design of magnetics, and control of power converters. Also ac/ac, ac/dc, and dc/dc power converters; circuit simulation; extensive laboratory work; a four-week power converter design project.
Electrical Engineering^E Electric Drives E Electric Drives E E 453 Electric Drives (5)Elements of drive systems, speed-torque characteristics of electric motors and industrial loads, solid-state converter. Starting and braking methods of loaded motors. Speed control of electric motors. Solid-state drives. Transient analysis of loaded motors. Special forms of individual- and multimotor drives.
Electrical Engineering^E Power System Analysis E Power System Analysis E E 454 Power System Analysis (4)Introduction to methods of analyzing power systems. Includes symmetrical components, calculation of line parameters, representation of transmission lines and power components, and power flow control.
Electrical Engineering^E Power System Dynamics and Protection E Power System Dynamics and Protection E E 455 Power System Dynamics and Protection (4)Analysis of symmetrical and unsymmetrical power systems' networks, fault analysis, and stability studies.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer-Aided Design in Power Systems E Computer-Aided Design in Power Systems E E 456 Computer-Aided Design in Power Systems (4)Design-oriented course in power system engineering. Students are assigned a project concerning system operation and planning, steady-state and dynamic behaviors of power systems, or distribution systems. Each involves formulation of design criteria, development of approach, application of existing software.
Electrical Engineering^E Electric Energy Distribution Systems E Electric Energy Distribution Systems E E 457 Electric Energy Distribution Systems (4)Introduction to electric utility distribution systems. Primary and secondary network analysis and design, distribution substation problems, distribution transformers, capacitor application, overcurrent and overvoltage protection. System planning and reliability.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Computer-Communication Networks E Introduction to Computer-Communication Networks E E 461 Introduction to Computer-Communication Networks (4)Computer network architectures and protocols. OSI Layers and performance analysis. Transmission media, switching, multiple access arbitration. Network routing, congestion control, flow control. Transport protocols, real-time, multicast, network security.
Electrical Engineering^E Fiber Optics, Devices, and Applications E Fiber Optics, Devices, and Applications E E 465 Fiber Optics, Devices, and Applications (4)Wave propagation in optical waveguiding structures, signal distortion, coupling of modes, modulation, sources and detectors, fabrication and measurement methods, communication and sensor systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Antennas: Analysis and Design E Antennas: Analysis and Design E E 467 Antennas: Analysis and Design (4)Fundamentals of antennas, analysis, synthesis, and computer-aided design, and applications in communications, remote sensing, and radars. Radiation pattern, directivity, impedance, wire antennas, arrays, numerical methods for analysis, horn antennas, microstrip antennas, and reflector antennas.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer Design and Organization E Computer Design and Organization E E 471 Computer Design and Organization (5)Introduction to computer architecture, algorithms, hardware design for various computer subsystems, CPU control unit design, hardwired and microprogrammed control, memory organization, cache design, virtual memory, I/O organization, and I/O hardware design.
Electrical Engineering^E Microcomputer Systems E Microcomputer Systems E E 472 Microcomputer Systems (5)Concepts of multi-level machines and computer systems organization. Utilizing microprocessors, digital computer studied at assembly; also, high-language levels with emphasis on concepts of central processor architecture, memory organization, input/output, and interrupts. Assembly language programming concepts applied to solution of various laboratory problems including I/O programming.
Electrical Engineering^E Linear Integrated Circuits E Linear Integrated Circuits E E 473 Linear Integrated Circuits (5)Design of linear integrated circuits applying modern MOS and BJT integrated circuit technologies: single-stage amplifiers; current-mirror DC bias and active load circuits; stability and frequency compensation of single-stage and two-stage operational amplifiers; output stages; current and voltage reference circuits.
Electrical Engineering^E Digital Integrated Circuit Design E Digital Integrated Circuit Design E E 476 Digital Integrated Circuit Design (5)Comprehensive view of digital integrated circuit design. Topics to be covered include the design of inverters, static logic circuits, switch logic, and synchronous logic. Students design, simulate, and layout a complete digital IC using modern computer-aided design tools.
Electrical Engineering^E VLSI II E VLSI II E E 477 VLSI II (5)Provides a fairly deep understanding of how IC-based memory and datapath blocks are designed using static and dynamic CMOS technologies. Gives students extensive experience with industry-standard computer-aided design tools, including Cadence (Virtuoso, DRC, LVS) and Avanti (Hspice). Credit not allowed for both E E 477 and E E 525.
Electrical Engineering^E Design of Computer Subsystems E Design of Computer Subsystems E E 478 Design of Computer Subsystems (5)Design of digital computer subsystems and systems, using SSI, MSI, and LSI digital components. Combinational logic, sequential logic, memory hardware designs, I/O hardware and interface design, system design steps, high-speed digital circuit design, noise reduction techniques, and hardware description language. One four-hour laboratory each week and design project.
Electrical Engineering^E Microwave Engineering I E Microwave Engineering I E E 480 Microwave Engineering I (4)Analysis and design of transmission lines and matching circuits. Lossy transmission lines. Mode structures in metallic and dielectric waveguides. Microwave resonators and magnetic devices. Smith chart and matching techniques.
Electrical Engineering^E Microwave Electronic Design E Microwave Electronic Design E E 481 Microwave Electronic Design (4)Design of microwave circuits using S-parameter techniques. Measurement techniques, CAD of microwave systems. Includes design, fabrication, and evaluation of a microwave amplifier.
Electrical Engineering^E Semiconductor Devices E Semiconductor Devices E E 482 Semiconductor Devices (4)Fundamentals of semiconductor theory: carrier diffusion and drift; concept of direct and indirect energy materials, effective mass of mobile carriers; device physics: homo- and heterojunctions, operating principles of bipolar, junction, and MOS field-effect transistors.
Electrical Engineering^E Sensors and Sensor Systems E Sensors and Sensor Systems E E 484 Sensors and Sensor Systems (4)Introduction to optical and solid-state chemical and physical sensors. Topics include transduction mechanisms, design parameters, fabrication methods and applications.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Photonics E Introduction to Photonics E E 485 Introduction to Photonics (4)Introduction to optical principles and phenomena. Topics include electromagnetic theory of light, interference, diffraction, polarization, photon optics, laser principles, Gaussian beam optics, semiconductor optics, semiconductor photonic devices.
Electrical Engineering^E Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology E Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology E E 486 Fundamentals of Integrated Circuit Technology (3)Processing physics, chemistry, and technology, including evaporation, sputtering, epitaxial growth, diffusion, ion implantation, laser annealing, oxidation, chemical vapor deposition, photoresists. Design considerations for bipolar and MOS devices, materials and process characterization. Future trends.
Electrical Engineering^E Photonics Design Capstone E Photonics Design Capstone E E 488 Photonics Design Capstone (4)Design of optical and optoelectronic devices using fundamental principles of photonics. Recent advances in contemporary research. Construction of microscopes or spectrometers. Involves a major design experience.
Electrical Engineering^E Reading and Research E Reading and Research E E 490 Reading and Research (1-5, max. 25)Reading and research in the field under supervision of an E E faculty member.
Electrical Engineering^E Undergraduate Seminar E Undergraduate Seminar E E 491 Undergraduate Seminar (1, max. 2)Weekly seminars on current topics in electrical engineering.
Electrical Engineering^E Undergraduate Research and Special Projects E Undergraduate Research and Special Projects E E 499 Undergraduate Research and Special Projects (2-5, max. 10)Undergraduate research or design project carried out under the supervision of a faculty sponsor.
Electrical Engineering^E Graduate Seminar E Graduate Seminar E E 500 Graduate Seminar (1, max. 9)Weekly seminars on current topics in electrical engineering. More than one section may be offered in a given quarter.
Electrical Engineering^E Radar Remote Sensing E Radar Remote Sensing E E 501 Radar Remote Sensing (4)Introduces radar remote sensing. Covers the fundamentals of radar systems, monostatic and bistatic topologies, radar equation, range-time diagram; ambiguity function, pulse compression, elementary estimation and detection theory, spectrum estimation for underspread and overspread targets; interferometry, source imaging; and Time Difference of Arrival, Aperture Synthesis (SAR and ISAR).
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems E Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems E E 502 Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems (4)Theoretical and practical aspects in design, analysis, and fabrication of MEMS devices. Fabrication processes, including bulk and surface micromachining. MEMS design and layout. MEMS CAD tools. Mechanical and electrical design. Applications such as micro sensors and actuators, or chemical and thermal transducers, recent advances. Offered: jointly with M E 504/MSE 504.
Electrical Engineering^E Modeling of MEMS E Modeling of MEMS E E 503 Modeling of MEMS (4)Explores microelectro mechanical systems (MEMS) including lumped modeling, conjugate power variables, electrostatic and magnetic actuators, linear transducers, linear system dynamics, design optimization, and thermal analysis. Numerical modeling topics include electro (quasi) static, mechanical, electro mechanical, magneto (quasi) static, and fluidic phenomena; parametric analysis, visualization of multi-dimensional solutions; and verification of validity of results.
Electrical Engineering^E Probability and Random Processes E Probability and Random Processes E E 505 Probability and Random Processes (4)Foundations for the engineering analysis of random processes: set theoretic fundamentals, basic axioms of probability models, conditional probabilities and independence, discrete and continuous random variables, multiple random variables, sequences of random variables, limit theorems, models of stochastic processes, noise, stationarity and ergodicity, Gaussian processes, power spectral densities.
Electrical Engineering^E Fundamentals of Wireless Communication E Fundamentals of Wireless Communication E E 506 Fundamentals of Wireless Communication (4)Reviews fundamentals of wireless communications including signal and noise theory, modulation techniques, fading channels, error analysis, synchronization, and coding.
Electrical Engineering^E Communication Theory II E Communication Theory II E E 507 Communication Theory II (3)Review of stochastic processes. Communication system models. Channel noise and capacity. Optimum detection, modulation, and coding, convolutional coders and decoders. Typical channels, random and fading channels. Waveform communication, optimum filters.
Electrical Engineering^E Stochastic Processes in Engineering E Stochastic Processes in Engineering E E 508 Stochastic Processes in Engineering (3)Non-measure theoretic introduction to stochastic processes. Topics include Poisson processes, renewal processes, Markov and semi-Markov processes, Brownian motion, and martingales, with applications to problems in queuing, supply chain management, signal processing, control, and communications.
Electrical Engineering^E Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory E Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory E E 510 Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory (4)Mathematical foundations for system theory presented from an engineering viewpoint. Includes set theory; functions, inverse functions; metric spaces; finite dimensional linear spaces; linear operators on finite dimensional spaces; projections on Hilbert spaces. Applications to engineering systems stressed. Offered: jointly with A A 510/CHEM E 510/M E 510.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Statistical Learning E Introduction to Statistical Learning E E 511 Introduction to Statistical Learning (4)Covers classification and estimation of vector observations, including both parametric and nonparametric approaches. Includes classification with likelihood functions and general discriminant functions, density estimation, supervised and unsupervised learning, feature reduction, model selection, and performance estimation.
Electrical Engineering^E Graphical Models in Pattern Recognition E Graphical Models in Pattern Recognition E E 512 Graphical Models in Pattern Recognition (4)Bayesian networks, Markov random fields, factor graphs, Markov properties, standard models as graphical models, graph theory (e.g., moralization and triangulation), probabilistic inference (including pearl's belief propagation, Hugin, and Shafer-Shenoy), junction threes, dynamic Bayesian networks (including hidden Markov models), learning new models, models in practice.
Electrical Engineering^E Information Theory I E Information Theory I E E 514 Information Theory I (4)Includes entropy, mutual information, Shannon's source coding theorem, data compression to entropy limit, method of types, Huffman coding, Kraft inequality, arithmetic coding, Kolmogorov complexity, communication at channel capacity (channel coding), coding theory, introduction to modern statistical coding techniques, differential entropy, and Gaussian channels.
Electrical Engineering^E Information Theory II E Information Theory II E E 515 Information Theory II (4)Includes advanced modern statistical coding techniques (statistical coding), advanced codes and graphs, source coding with errors (rate distortion), alternating minimization principles, channel coding with errors, network information theory, multiple description coding, and information theory in other areas including pattern recognition, bio-informatics, natural language processing, and computer science.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer Speech Processing E Computer Speech Processing E E 516 Computer Speech Processing (4)Introduction to automatic speech processing. Overview of human speech production and perception. Fundamental theory in speech coding, synthesis and reproduction, as well as system design methodologies. Advanced topics include speaker and language identification and adaptation.
Electrical Engineering^E Statistical Language Processing E Statistical Language Processing E E 517 Statistical Language Processing (4)Introduction to major issues in natural language processing and human language technology, with emphasis on statistical approaches. Addresses topics in statistical parsing and tagging, dialogue systems, information extraction, and machine translation.
Electrical Engineering^E Digital Signal Processing E Digital Signal Processing E E 518 Digital Signal Processing (4)Digital representation of analog signals. Frequency domain and Z-transforms of digital signals and systems design of digital systems; IIR and FIR filter design techniques, fast Fourier transform algorithms. Sources of error in digital systems. Analysis of noise in digital systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Stochastic Analysis of Data From Physical Systems E Stochastic Analysis of Data From Physical Systems E E 519 Stochastic Analysis of Data From Physical Systems (4)Computer systems for acquisition and processing of stochastic signals. Calculation of typical descriptors of such random processes as correlation functions, spectral densities, probability densities. Interpretation of statistical measurements made on a variety of physical systems (e.g., electrical, mechanical, acoustic, nuclear). Lecture plus laboratory.
Electrical Engineering^E Spectral Analysis of Time Series E Spectral Analysis of Time Series E E 520 Spectral Analysis of Time Series (4)Estimation of spectral densities for single and multiple time series. Nonparametric estimation of spectral density, cross-spectral density, and coherency for stationary time series, real and complex spectrum techniques. Bispectrum. Digital filtering techniques. Aliasing, prewhitening. Choice of lag windows and data windows. Use of the fast Fourier transform. The parametric autoregressive spectral density estimate for single and multiple stationary time series. Spectral analysis of nonstationary random processes and for randomly sampled processes. Techniques of robust spectral analysis.
Electrical Engineering^E Quantum Mechanics for Engineers E Quantum Mechanics for Engineers E E 521 Quantum Mechanics for Engineers (4)Covers the basic theory of quantum mechanics in the context of modern examples of technological importance involving 1D, 2D, and 3D nanomaterials. Develops a qualitative and quantitative understanding of the principles of quantization, band structure, density of states, and Fermi's golden rule (optical absorption, electron-impurity/phonon scattering).
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Synthetic Biology E Introduction to Synthetic Biology E E 523 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3)Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology E Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology E E 524 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3)Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology.
Electrical Engineering^E VLSI II E VLSI II E E 525 VLSI II (5)Analyzes how IC-based memory and datapath blocks are designed using static and dynamic CMOS technologies. Gives students extensive experience with industry-standard computer-aided design tools, including Cadence (Virtuoso, DRC, LVS) and Avanti (Hspice). Credit not allowed for both E E 477 and E E 525.
Electrical Engineering^E VLSI III E VLSI III E E 526 VLSI III (4)Ultra-high speed digital logical families based on output prediction logic; high-speed division; input and output pad design; state-of the-art latch and flip-flop design; clock distribution, including PLLs and DLLs; noise considerations in high-speed digital IC design.
Electrical Engineering^E Microfabrication E Microfabrication E E 527 Microfabrication (4)Principles and techniques for the fabrication of microelectronics devices and integrated circuits. Includes clean room laboratory practices and chemical safety, photolithography, wet and dry etching, oxidation and diffusion, metallization and dielectric deposition, compressed gas systems, vacuum systems, thermal processing systems, plasma systems, and metrology. Extensive laboratory with limited enrollment.
Electrical Engineering^E Physics and Modeling f VLSI Fabrication E Physics and Modeling f VLSI Fabrication E E 528 Physics and Modeling f VLSI Fabrication (4)Physics of VLSI fabrication, emphasizing processing modeling and simulation. CMOS process, sequences, point defects and diffusion, ion implantation and annealing, film growth kinetics, deposition and etching, advanced photolithography. Process interactions and process integration. Extensive use of process simulation software.
Electrical Engineering^E Semiconductor Optoelectronics E Semiconductor Optoelectronics E E 529 Semiconductor Optoelectronics (4)Covers optical processes in semiconductors; optical waveguide theory; junction theory; LEDs; lasers photodetectors; photovoltaics; and optical modulators and switches.
Electrical Engineering^E Wavelets: Data Analysis, Algorithms, and Theory E Wavelets: Data Analysis, Algorithms, and Theory E E 530 Wavelets: Data Analysis, Algorithms, and Theory (3)Review of spectral analysis. Theory of continuous and discrete wavelets. Multiresolution analysis. Computation of discrete wavelet transform. Time-scale analysis. Wavelet packets. Statistical properties of wavelet signal extraction and smoothers. Estimation of wavelet variance.
Electrical Engineering^E Semiconductor Devices and Device Simulation E Semiconductor Devices and Device Simulation E E 531 Semiconductor Devices and Device Simulation (4)Physical principles in semiconductor devices. Generation, recombination, p-n junctions, MOS, metal-semiconductor and other interface structures. Carrier transport at low and high level injection levels. Device simulation used to demonstrate physical principles and basic device operation. Project using device simulation.
Electrical Engineering^E Photodetectors and Photodetection E Photodetectors and Photodetection E E 533 Photodetectors and Photodetection (4)Includes both the device physics and signal processing aspects of photodetection. Photodiodes, photoconductors, photomultipliers, and solar cells. Noise, signal-to-noise ratios, and imaging considerations.
Electrical Engineering^E Power Electronics E Power Electronics E E 534 Power Electronics (4)Detailed study of DC-to-AC inverters, pulse-width modulated and resonant DC-to-DC converter topologies; drive and protection circuits for efficient switching of semiconductor devices. Includes extensive computer-aided circuit simulation and power supply control.
Electrical Engineering^E Design of Analog Integrated Circuits and Systems E Design of Analog Integrated Circuits and Systems E E 536 Design of Analog Integrated Circuits and Systems (4)Design of analog VLSI: specifications, design, simulation, layout. Covering CMOS and Bi CMOS technologies.
Electrical Engineering^E Computation Methods for Circuit Analysis and Simulation E Computation Methods for Circuit Analysis and Simulation E E 537 Computation Methods for Circuit Analysis and Simulation (3)Introduction to numerical algorithms and computer-aided techniques for the simulation of electronic circuits. Theoretical and practical aspects of important analyses: large-signal nonlinear DC, small-signal AC, nonlinear transient, and large-signal steady-state. Simulation concepts applied to the modeling and characterization of various electronic devices.
Electrical Engineering^E Topics in Electronic Circuit Design E Topics in Electronic Circuit Design E E 538 Topics in Electronic Circuit Design (1-5, max. 16)Topics of current interest in electronic circuit and system design. Course content varies from year to year, based on current professional interests of the faculty member in charge.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Solid-State Electronics E Advanced Topics in Solid-State Electronics E E 539 Advanced Topics in Solid-State Electronics (1-5, max. 16)Lectures or discussions of topics of current interest in the field of solid-state electronics for advanced graduate students having adequate preparation in solid-state theory. Subject matter may vary according to the interests of students and faculty.
Electrical Engineering^E VLSI Testing E VLSI Testing E E 540 VLSI Testing (4)VLSI testing and design-for-test techniques, covering digital systems, mixed analog-digital systems, integrated sensor systems, and radio-frequency systems. Projects include test algorithm design, testing of fabricated circuits, and parametric testing of state-of-the-art industry circuits.
Electrical Engineering^E Automatic Layout of Integrated Circuits E Automatic Layout of Integrated Circuits E E 541 Automatic Layout of Integrated Circuits (4)Examines the algorithms behind the following commonly used physical design automation tools: floorplanning, partitioning, placement, routing, compaction, and verification.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Embedded Systems Design E Advanced Embedded Systems Design E E 542 Advanced Embedded Systems Design (5)Studies advanced embedded system design principles and practices. Emphasizes formal design methodologies such as hardware-software co-design, investigates techniques for performance optimization, and examines distributed embedded systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Models of Robot Manipulation E Models of Robot Manipulation E E 543 Models of Robot Manipulation (4)Mathematical models of arbitrary articulated robotic (or biological) arms and their application to realistic arms and tasks, including the homogeneous coordinate model of positioning tasks, the forward and inverse kinematic models, the Jacobian Matrix, and the recursive Newton-Euler dynamic model.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Robot Manipulation E Advanced Robot Manipulation E E 544 Advanced Robot Manipulation (4)Continuation of the analysis of robot manipulation, considering kinematic redundancy, control of robot manipulators in contact with the environment, teleoperation, and grasping with multi-fingered hands. Students perform a project and critique a research paper in the area of the project.
Electrical Engineering^E Autonomous Multi-Robot Systems E Autonomous Multi-Robot Systems E E 545 Autonomous Multi-Robot Systems (4)Design-oriented course in autonomous multi-robot systems. Wireless peer communication protocols, multi-robot control methodologies and computational issues. Laboratory exercises include design, construction, and testing of multiple autonomous mobile robots, which compete as a team at the end of the term.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Control System Theory E Advanced Topics in Control System Theory E E 546 Advanced Topics in Control System Theory (1-5, max. 16)Topics of current interest in control system theory for advanced graduate students with adequate preparation in linear and nonlinear system theory.
Electrical Engineering^E Linear Systems Theory E Linear Systems Theory E E 547 Linear Systems Theory (4)Linearity, linearization, finite dimensionality, time-varying vs. time-invariant linear systems, interconnection of linear systems, functional/structural descriptions of linear systems, system zeros and invertibility, linear system stability, system norms, state transition, matrix exponentials, controllability and observability, realization theory. Offered: jointly with A A 547/M E 547.
Electrical Engineering^E Linear Multivariable Control E Linear Multivariable Control E E 548 Linear Multivariable Control (3)Introduction to MIMO systems, successive single loop design comparison, Lyapunov stability theorem, full state feedback controller design, observer design, LQR problem statement, design, stability analysis, and tracking design. LQG design, separation principle, stability robustness.
Electrical Engineering^E Estimation and System Identification E Estimation and System Identification E E 549 Estimation and System Identification (3)Fundamentals of state estimation for linear and nonlinear systems. Discrete and continuous systems. Probability and stochastic systems theory. Models with noise. Kalman-Bucy filters, extended Kalman filters, recursive estimation. Numerical issues in filter design and implementation.
Electrical Engineering^E Nonlinear Optimal Control E Nonlinear Optimal Control E E 550 Nonlinear Optimal Control (3)Calculus of variations for dynamical systems, definition of the dynamic optimization problem, constraints and Lagrange multipliers, the Pontryagin Maximum Principle, necessary conditions for optimality, the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation, singular arc problems, computational techniques for solution of the necessary conditions. Offered: jointly with A A 550/M E 550.
Electrical Engineering^E Wind Energy E Wind Energy E E 551 Wind Energy (4)Covers the operation and modeling of wind energy, wind statistics, wind generators and converters, wind energy systems, challenges to wind energy development, impacts of wind energy on the power grid, and existing and potential solutions to wind energy integration.
Electrical Engineering^E Power Systems Dynamics and Control E Power Systems Dynamics and Control E E 552 Power Systems Dynamics and Control (4)Advanced computer modeling and analysis of power systems. Application of modern systems and control theories.
Electrical Engineering^E Power System Economics E Power System Economics E E 553 Power System Economics (4)Economic structure of power systems. Problem formulation, optimization methods and programming for economic analysis of power system operation and planning. Economic dispatch, load forecasting, unit commitment, interchange, planning and reliability analysis. Provides background to pursue advanced work in planning and operation.
Electrical Engineering^E Large Electric Energy Systems Analysis E Large Electric Energy Systems Analysis E E 554 Large Electric Energy Systems Analysis (4)Deals with problems whose solution depends upon the inversion of sparse matrices that occur in the planning and operational studies of large interconnected energy systems. Application studies include system model development, state estimation, and load flow.
Electrical Engineering^E Fundamentals of Intelligent Systems E Fundamentals of Intelligent Systems E E 555 Fundamentals of Intelligent Systems (4)Fundamentals and applications of intelligent systems and biologically inspired algorithms such as neural networks, evolutionary computations, swarm optimization and fuzzy systems. Solving complex engineering applications with a combination of these technologies as well as with more traditional approaches such as statistical system theories.
Electrical Engineering^E Anaylzing the Power Grid E Anaylzing the Power Grid E E 556 Anaylzing the Power Grid (4)Discusses the models of the various components of an electricity grid and how they are combined into a set of equations that can be used to analyze the grid under normal, steady state conditions, as well as to calculate fault currents and assess its transient stability.
Electrical Engineering^E Dynamics of Controlled Systems E Dynamics of Controlled Systems E E 557 Dynamics of Controlled Systems (4)Explores control techniques for high precision motion control. Covers sate variable feedback of linear and nonlinear, multivariable systems in depth. Uses physical system modeling, graphical analysis, and numerical analysis to describe system performance. Uses simulation mini-projects to emphasize the dynamics of controlled systems and their performance.
Electrical Engineering^E Substation and Distribution Automation E Substation and Distribution Automation E E 558 Substation and Distribution Automation (4)Examines how smart grid technologies affect substation and distribution operations and how history, customer expectations, and state and federal policies have shaped the existing infrastructure. Studies the capabilities of various emerging technologies to assess how they are able to solve existing issues.
Electrical Engineering^E Special Topics in Electrical Energy Systems E Special Topics in Electrical Energy Systems E E 559 Special Topics in Electrical Energy Systems (1-5, max. 16)Topics of current interest in electrical power and energy devices and systems. Content varies from year to year, based on current professional interests of faculty member in charge.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Electric Machines and Drives E Advanced Electric Machines and Drives E E 560 Advanced Electric Machines and Drives (4)Fundamentals of electric machines and drives, including brush DC, brushless DC, PM synchronous, induction machines, inverter topologies, and control techniques. Evaluation of torque production and control in machines with electronic drives (motor controllers).
Electrical Engineering^E Artificial Intelligence for Engineers E Artificial Intelligence for Engineers E E 562 Artificial Intelligence for Engineers (3)Covers main areas of artificial intelligence (AI) without need for extensive prerequisites. Programming languages for AI; problem solving; representations; control strategies; searching strategies; predicate calculus; rule-based deduction; goal-directed planning; knowledge-based systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer-Communication Networks I E Computer-Communication Networks I E E 565 Computer-Communication Networks I (4)Network architectures and protocols; layered model; reliable transmission protocols at the data control layer; Transmission Control Protocols (TCP); routing algorithms; performance modeling, and analysis of packet-switched networks. Multi-access. Projects involving routing and multi-access principles.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer-Communication Networks II E Computer-Communication Networks II E E 566 Computer-Communication Networks II (3)Local area, metropolitan area, satellite, and packet radio networks; routing algorithms for wide area networks; optimal design of packet-switched networks; congestion and flow control; fast packet switching; gigabit networks.
Electrical Engineering^E Mobile Radio Networks E Mobile Radio Networks E E 567 Mobile Radio Networks (4)Wireless communication networks, including digital broadcasting, wireless LAN, wireless access networks and ultra wide band (UWB); OFDM modem design; dirty-paper coding; MAC and RLP; TCP/UDP over wireless; multi-radio networks; cross-layer protocol optimization; radio network planning.
Electrical Engineering^E Image Processing Computer Systems E Image Processing Computer Systems E E 568 Image Processing Computer Systems (4)All components of digital image-processing computer systems. Two-dimensional filtering and optimal filter design as well as basic image processing operations. Selected advanced image processing topics. Individual student project.
Electrical Engineering^E Manifolds and Geometry for Systems and Control E Manifolds and Geometry for Systems and Control E E 570 Manifolds and Geometry for Systems and Control (3)Introduction to fundamentals of calculus on manifolds and group theory with applications in robotics and control theory. Topics include: manifolds, tangent spaces and bundles, Lie groups and algebras, coordinate vs. coordinate-free representations. Applications from physics, robotics, and control theory. Offered: jointly with A A 570/M E 570; W, even years.
Electrical Engineering^E High Frequency Circuits and Antennas: Computation of Fields and Waves E High Frequency Circuits and Antennas: Computation of Fields and Waves E E 571 High Frequency Circuits and Antennas: Computation of Fields and Waves (4)Planar microstrip structures are high frequency circuits and antennas used in communication, aerospace and computer industries. Examines the computation of fields and waves in such structures. How to calculate circuit parameters and radiation characteristics. Structures studied include microstrip lines, coupled lines, antennas, resonators, and discontinuities.
Electrical Engineering^E Electromagnetic Theory and Applications I E Electromagnetic Theory and Applications I E E 572 Electromagnetic Theory and Applications I (4)Electromagnetic waves in layered media; complex waves, leaky and slow waves, waves in periodic structures, optical fibers, ionosphere and other guiding structures; transients and dispersive media; waveguides and cavities; beam waves; eigenfunctions and eigenvalues.
Electrical Engineering^E Electromagnetic Computations and Applications I E Electromagnetic Computations and Applications I E E 573 Electromagnetic Computations and Applications I (4)Fundamentals of computational electromagnetics, method of moments, integral equations, basis functions, iterative methods, periodic structures and Green's Functions finite difference time domain method, Yee's lattice, absorbing boundary conditions, variational principles, and finite element method. Applications in antennas, waveguides, and scattering problems.
Electrical Engineering^E Electromagnetic Computations and Applications II E Electromagnetic Computations and Applications II E E 574 Electromagnetic Computations and Applications II (4)Current topics in computational electromagnetics, fast multipole multilevel method, sparse matrix canonical grid method, wavelet based methods, recursive method, spectral time domain method. Applications in large scale problems such as array antennas, radar cross section, rough surface scattering, and dense media scattering,
Electrical Engineering^E Waves in Random Media E Waves in Random Media E E 575 Waves in Random Media (4)Propagation and scattering of electromagnetic, optical, and acoustic waves in turbulence and random media, scattering from rough surfaces and randomly distributed particles. Atmospheric turbulence, fog, rain, smog, clear-air turbulence detection, remote sensing, terrain scattering, scattering from blood cells and tissues, scattering by ocean waves. Applications to atmospheric sciences, bioengineering, geoscience, ocean engineering.
Electrical Engineering^E Computer Vision E Computer Vision E E 576 Computer Vision (3)Principles and methods for interpreting the three-dimensional world from images. Topics include feature detection, image segmentation, motion estimation, image mosaics, 3D-shape reconstruction, object recognition, and image retrieval.
Electrical Engineering^E Special Topics in Computer Vision E Special Topics in Computer Vision E E 577 Special Topics in Computer Vision (3)Topics vary and may include vision for graphics, probabilistic vision and learning, medical imaging, content-based image and video retrieval, robot vision, or 3D object recognition.
Electrical Engineering^E Optimization in System Sciences E Optimization in System Sciences E E 578 Optimization in System Sciences (3)Covers convex sets, separation theorems, theorem of alternatives and their applications, convex analysis, convex functions, conjugation, subgradients, convex optimization, duality and applications, linear and semi-definite programming. Linear matrix inequalities, optimization algorithms, applications in system theory and control, bilinear, rank minimization, optimization software. Offered: jointly with A A 578/M E 578; W.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Electromagnetics, Optics, and Acoustics E Advanced Topics in Electromagnetics, Optics, and Acoustics E E 579 Advanced Topics in Electromagnetics, Optics, and Acoustics (1-5, max. 16)Topics of current interest in electromagnetics, optics, and acoustics. Content varies from year to year, based on current professional interests of faculty member in charge.
Electrical Engineering^E Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems E Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems E E 580 Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems (3)Analysis and design of nonlinear control systems focusing on differential geometric methods. Topics include controllability, observability, feedback linearization, invariant distributions, and local coordinate transformations. Emphasis on systems evolving on Lie groups and linearly uncontrollable systems
Electrical Engineering^E Digital Control E Digital Control E E 581 Digital Control (3) ChizeckSampled-data systems, and z-transform. Frequency domain properties. Sampling D/A and A/D conversion. Controller design via discrete-time equivalents, direct methods, state feedback and observers. Quantization effects. LQR control and introduction to LQG optimal control.
Electrical Engineering^E Introduction to Discrete Event Systems E Introduction to Discrete Event Systems E E 582 Introduction to Discrete Event Systems (3) BergModeling DES with automata and Petri nets. Languages. State estimation and diagnostics. Control specifications. Feedback control. Dealing with uncontrollability and unobservability. Dealing with blocking. Timed automata and Petri nets.
Electrical Engineering^E Nonlinear Control Systems E Nonlinear Control Systems E E 583 Nonlinear Control Systems (3)Analysis of nonlinear systems and nonlinear control system design. Phase plane analysis. Lyapunov stability analysis. Describing functions. Feedback linearization. Introduction to variable structure control.
Electrical Engineering^E System Identification and Adaptive Control E System Identification and Adaptive Control E E 585 System Identification and Adaptive Control (3)Theory and methods of system identification and adaptive control. Identification of linear-in-parameter systems, using recursive LS and extended LS methods; model order selection. Indirect and direct adaptive control. Controller synthesis, transient and stability properties. Offered: jointly with A A 585/M E 585.
Electrical Engineering^E Digital Video Coding Systems E Digital Video Coding Systems E E 586 Digital Video Coding Systems (4)Introduction to digital video coding algorithms and systems. Theoretical and practical aspects of important topics on digital video coding algorithms, motion estimation, video coding standards, systems issues, and visual communications.
Electrical Engineering^E Multimedia Compression and Networking E Multimedia Compression and Networking E E 587 Multimedia Compression and Networking (4)Addresses four major components of multimedia: 1) data compression of multimedia (e.g., speech, audio, image, and video); 2) quality of service (QoS) issues for data transmission over IP; 3) multimedia streaming and conferencing applications; and 4) intellectual property management and protection (IPMP) of multimedia contents. Co-requisite: E E 518.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Sensors and Sensor Systems E Advanced Topics in Sensors and Sensor Systems E E 589 Advanced Topics in Sensors and Sensor Systems (3)Topics of current interest in sensors and sensor systems.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Digital Computers E Advanced Topics in Digital Computers E E 590 Advanced Topics in Digital Computers (2-5, max. 16)Lectures or discussions of topics of current interest in the field of digital systems. Subject matter may vary from year to year.
Electrical Engineering^E Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium E Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium E E 591 Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium (1, max. 30)Colloquium on current topics in robotics and control systems analysis and design. Topics presented by invited speakers as well as on-campus speakers. Emphasis on the cross-disciplinary nature of robotics and control systems. Offered: jointly with A A 591/CHEM E 591/M E 591.
Electrical Engineering^E Electrical Engineering Research Survey E Electrical Engineering Research Survey E E 592 Electrical Engineering Research Survey (1, max. 2)Weekly presentations on current research activities by members of the department.
Electrical Engineering^E Feedforward Control E Feedforward Control E E 593 Feedforward Control (3) DevasiaDesign feedforward controllers for precision output tracking; inversion-based control of non-minimum-phase systems; effect of plant uncertainty on feedforward control; design of feedforward controllers for applications such as vertical take off and landing aircraft, flexible structures and piezo-actuators.
Electrical Engineering^E Robust Control E Robust Control E E 594 Robust Control (3)Basic foundations of linear analysis and control theory, model realization and reduction, balanced realization and truncation, stabilization problem, coprime factorizations, Youla parameterization, matrix inequalities, H-infinity and H2 control, KYP lemma, uncertain systems, robust H2, integral quadratic constraints, linear parameter varying synthesis, applications of robust control.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Communication Theory E Advanced Topics in Communication Theory E E 595 Advanced Topics in Communication Theory (1-5, max. 16)Extension of E E 507, E E 508, E E 518, E E 519, E E 520. Material differs each year, covering such topics as: detection theory, decision theory, game theory, adaptive communication systems, nonlinear random processes.
Electrical Engineering^E Advanced Topics in Signal and Image Processing E Advanced Topics in Signal and Image Processing E E 596 Advanced Topics in Signal and Image Processing (2-5, max. 16)Topics of current interest in signal and image processing. Content may vary from offering to offering.
Electrical Engineering^E Networked Dynamics Systems E Networked Dynamics Systems E E 597 Networked Dynamics Systems (3)Provides an overview of graph-theoretic techniques that are instrumental for studying dynamic systems that coordinate their states over a signal-exchange network. Topics include network models, network properties, dynamics over networks, formation control, biological networks, observability, controllability, and performance measures over networks.
Electrical Engineering^E Selected Topics in Electrical Engineering E Selected Topics in Electrical Engineering E E 599 Selected Topics in Electrical Engineering (1-5, max. 15)
Electrical Engineering^E Independent Study or Research E Independent Study or Research E E 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)
Electrical Engineering^E Master's Thesis E Master's Thesis E E 700 Master's Thesis (*-)
Electrical Engineering^E Doctoral Dissertation E Doctoral Dissertation E E 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-)
Political Science^POL Introduction to Politics POL Introduction to Politics POL S 101 Introduction to Politics (5) I&SPolitical problems that affect our lives and shape the world around us.
Political Science^POL Political Argumentation POL Political Argumentation POL S 110 Political Argumentation (3) VLPA/I&SSkills- and practice-based approach to political argumentation. Suitable for non-majors.
Political Science^POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL S 195 Study Abroad: Political Science (1-10, max. 15) I&SLower-division political science courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. Credit does not apply to major requirements.
Political Science^POL Introduction to Political Theory POL Introduction to Political Theory POL S 201 Introduction to Political Theory (5) I&SPhilosophical bases of politics and political activity. Provides an introduction to the study of politics by the reading of books in political philosophy. Organized around several key political concepts, such as liberty, equality, justice, authority, rights, and citizenship. Offered: AWSpS.
Political Science^POL Introduction to American Politics POL Introduction to American Politics POL S 202 Introduction to American Politics (5) I&SInstitutions and politics in the American political system. Ways of thinking about how significant problems, crises, and conflicts of American society are resolved politically. Offered: AWSpS.
Political Science^POL Introduction to International Relations POL Introduction to International Relations POL S 203 Introduction to International Relations (5) I&SThe world community, its politics, and government. Offered: AWSpS.
Political Science^POL Introduction to Comparative Politics POL Introduction to Comparative Politics POL S 204 Introduction to Comparative Politics (5) I&SPolitical systems in a comparative framework. Traditional and contemporary approaches to the study of governments and societies in different countries. Offered: AWSpS.
Political Science^POL Political Science as a Social Science POL Political Science as a Social Science POL S 205 Political Science as a Social Science (5) I&S, QSRMethodological perspectives of social science disciplines: commonalties and differences in assumptions, values, and paradigms. Current issues from the multiple perspective of social sciences; limits of the social sciences in resolving key social issues.
Political Science^POL Issues of Global Justice POL Issues of Global Justice POL S 207 Issues of Global Justice (5) I&S M. BLAKE, J. MAYERFELD, W. TALBOTTIntroduces issues of global justice. Topics include: global poverty and aid, immigration, transnational governance, gender in global relations, climate change, and cultural relativism. Offered: jointly with PHIL 207/VALUES 207.
Political Science^POL Philosophy of Feminism POL Philosophy of Feminism POL S 212 Philosophy of Feminism (5) I&S, DIVPhilosophical analysis of the concepts and assumptions central to feminism. Theoretical positions within the feminist movement; view of the ideal society, goals and strategies of the movement, intersections of the sex-gender system with other systems of oppression. Offered: jointly with GWSS 206/PHIL 206.
Political Science^POL The Korean Peninsula and World Politics POL The Korean Peninsula and World Politics POL S 213 The Korean Peninsula and World Politics (5) I&S HaIntroduces Korean politics, economics, society, and international relations. Overviews the development in politics, economy, and society since the late nineteenth century. Addresses the evolution of Korea in the international society by comparing Korea experience with that of China and Japan. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 213.
Political Science^POL African American Politics POL African American Politics POL S 246 African American Politics (5) I&S, DIV C. PARKERSurvey of African Americans within the U.S. socio-political processes. Situates African Americans within a post-civil rights context where there is debate about race's centrality to an African American politics. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 246.
Political Science^POL Introduction to Labor Studies POL Introduction to Labor Studies POL S 249 Introduction to Labor Studies (5) I&SConceptual and theoretical issues in the study of labor and work. Role of labor in national and international politics. Formation of labor movements. Historical and contemporary role of labor in the modern world. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 249/SOC 266.
Political Science^POL Introduction to Political Economy POL Introduction to Political Economy POL S 270 Introduction to Political Economy (5) I&S A. GILLPolitical economy as a tool for understanding and evaluating the political world. Combines theory, methods, and insights derived from economics and political science and applies them to a range of substantive issues.
Political Science^POL The Concept of Political Power POL The Concept of Political Power POL S 273 The Concept of Political Power (5) I&SHow to understand and explain relationships of power. Readings from Marxism, Weberian sociology, anarchism, classical political philosophy, and contemporary political science. May also include works of fiction.
Political Science^POL Literature and American Political Culture POL Literature and American Political Culture POL S 281 Literature and American Political Culture (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduction to the methods and theories used in the analysis of American culture. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media. Offered: jointly with ENGL 251.
Political Science^POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL S 295 Study Abroad: Political Science (1-10, max. 15) I&SPolitical science courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in Political Science POL Special Topics in Political Science POL S 299 Special Topics in Political Science (2-5, max. 10) I&SExamines a different subject or problem of current interest within the discipline.
Political Science^POL Topics in Political Theory POL Topics in Political Theory POL S 301 Topics in Political Theory (5, max. 10) I&SStudy of topics in political theory.
Political Science^POL Free Will, Nature, and Nurture in Politics and Society POL Free Will, Nature, and Nurture in Politics and Society POL S 302 Free Will, Nature, and Nurture in Politics and Society (5) I&S M. SMITHExamines beliefs and actions in politics and other domains from the standpoint of free will, nature, and nurture. Compares political science to other disciplines in explaining why people think and act as they do.
Political Science^POL Public Policy Formation in the United States POL Public Policy Formation in the United States POL S 303 Public Policy Formation in the United States (5) I&SPolicy decision making with emphasis on: how issues arise, the way they become part of the policy agenda of the executive and the legislature, how these institutions organize to handle policy issues, and the roles of the legislature, the executive, and the bureaucracy. Public policy literature and familiarization with key aspects of policy decision making at the national, state, and local levels.
Political Science^POL The Press and Politics in the United States POL The Press and Politics in the United States POL S 304 The Press and Politics in the United States (5) I&SJournalists' role in elections and public policy. Relationship between news coverage and political campaigns. Study and analysis of local political newswriting, reporting, and response by local and state political figures. Extensive off-campus experience included. Offered: jointly with COM 304.
Political Science^POL The Politics of Mass Communication in America POL The Politics of Mass Communication in America POL S 305 The Politics of Mass Communication in America (5) I&SRole of mass audiences in politics from the standpoint of the communication strategies used to shape their political involvement. Topics include: social structure and political participation, political propaganda and persuasion, the political uses of public opinion, and the mass media and politics. Offered: jointly with COM 305.
Political Science^POL Media, Society, and Political Identity I&S POL Media, Society, and Political Identity I&S POL S 306 Media, Society, and Political Identity I&S (5) I&S W. BENNETTExplores how society and culture are both represented in and shaped by communication technologies and media content. Media include film, advertising, news, entertainment television, talk shows, and the Internet. Explores how media represent and affect individual identity, values, and political engagement. Offered: jointly with COM 306.
Political Science^POL Religion and World Politics POL Religion and World Politics POL S 307 Religion and World Politics (5) I&S A. GILLExplores the intersection of religion and politics in various regions of the world, including the United States, Europe, Middle East, Latin America, and other regions. Presents an historical perspective on religion alongside contemporary issues in religion, politics, and church-state relations. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 307.
Political Science^POL The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Ancient and Medieval POL The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Ancient and Medieval POL S 308 The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Ancient and Medieval (5) I&SOrigin and evolution of major political concepts from ancient Greece to the medieval period.
Political Science^POL The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Pre-Modern POL The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Pre-Modern POL S 309 The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Pre-Modern (5) I&SContinuation of POL S 308, treating materials from the fifteenth through eighteenth centuries.
Political Science^POL The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Modern POL The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Modern POL S 310 The Western Tradition of Political Thought, Modern (5) I&SContinuation of POL S 308 and POL S 309, focusing on material from the eighteenth through twentieth centuries.
Political Science^POL Individual and the State POL Individual and the State POL S 311 Individual and the State (5) I&SIndividualism and communitarian critics. Political and ethical implications of both. Nature of the state, liberty, responsibility, cooperation. Important individualist and collectivist literature, dealing with market institutions and citizen politics, critically assessed.
Political Science^POL Survey of American Political Thought POL Survey of American Political Thought POL S 312 Survey of American Political Thought (5) I&SSurvey of American political thought from colonial times to the 1980s. Topics include the idea of the self-made man; the intellectual contexts of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution; slavery, abolition, and the Civil War; progressivism; Cold War liberalism; the Civil Rights Movement and and its critics; and modern conservatism.
Political Science^POL Women in Politics POL Women in Politics POL S 313 Women in Politics (5) I&S, DIVTheoretical, historical, and empirical studies of women's participation in political and social movements. Women's diverse efforts to improve their political, social, and economic status. Policy issues of particular concern to women. Women's political experiences in household, local, regional, national, and international arenas. Offered: jointly with GWSS 313.
Political Science^POL Israel: Dynamic Society and Global Flashpoint POL Israel: Dynamic Society and Global Flashpoint POL S 314 Israel: Dynamic Society and Global Flashpoint (5) I&SIntroduces the people, institutions, and culture of Israel is the context of larger global forces. Examines domestic, regional, and international elements, both historically and in the contemporary period, that have shaped Israel's culture, politics, and special role in world affairs. Topics include nationalism, ethnicity, politics, religion, film, literature, and culture. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 314/NEAR E 315.
Political Science^POL Black Identities and Political Power POL Black Identities and Political Power POL S 315 Black Identities and Political Power (5) I&S RiversRelates the deployment of political power within institutions to shifting racial identities. Shows how racial identities both reflect and inflect relations of domination and resistance within and between cultures in the black diaspora.
Political Science^POL African-American Political and Social Thought POL African-American Political and Social Thought POL S 316 African-American Political and Social Thought (5) I&S C. PARKERRace relations in U.S. politics as defined by the struggle of African Americans for economic, political, and social equality. Studies of African-American political and social thought; expands and clarifies our understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of American democratic ideals.
Political Science^POL The Politics of Race and Ethnicity in the United States POL The Politics of Race and Ethnicity in the United States POL S 317 The Politics of Race and Ethnicity in the United States (5) I&S, DIV M. FRANCISIntroduction to the history and development of racial hierarchy, focusing on how race and ethnicity shape political institutions (e.g., the Constitution, political parties, voting systems). Examination of political relationships between Whites, African Americans, Latinos, and Asian Americans. Case studies of minority representation and the politics of welfare, crime, immigration, and terrorism. Offered: jointly with LSJ 331.
Political Science^POL American Political Thought I POL American Political Thought I POL S 318 American Political Thought I (5) I&S J. TURNER IIIMajor thinkers and themes in American political and cultural development from Puritan origins to the Civil War.
Political Science^POL American Political Thought II POL American Political Thought II POL S 319 American Political Thought II (5) I&S J. TURNER IIIMajor thinkers and themes in American political and cultural development from the Civil War to the present.
Political Science^POL State-Society Relations in Third World Countries POL State-Society Relations in Third World Countries POL S 320 State-Society Relations in Third World Countries (5) I&S, DIV Bachman, CallahanRelationships among political, social, and economic changes in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Problems of economic and political development, revolution and reform, state-society relations, imperialism and dependency. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 310.
Political Science^POL American Foreign Policy POL American Foreign Policy POL S 321 American Foreign Policy (5) I&SConstitutional framework; major factors in formulation and execution of policy; policies as modified by recent developments; the principal policymakers - president, Congress, political parties, pressure groups, and public opinion.
Political Science^POL International Political Economy of Latin America POL International Political Economy of Latin America POL S 322 International Political Economy of Latin America (5) I&S V. MENALDOExploration of politics underlying Latin America's economic development. Topics covered include import-substituting industrialization, mercantilism, the debt crisis, neoliberalism, market integration, and poverty. Review of major theoretical perspectives such as modernization theory, dependency, and the new political economy. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 322.
Political Science^POL Europe in World Politics POL Europe in World Politics POL S 324 Europe in World Politics (5) I&SIndependent and coordinated efforts of Britain, France, and West Germany to adapt to the post-World War II global system. Creation and development of the Atlantic Alliance. Relations with postcommunist states. Decolonization and the evolution of relations with the Third World. The movement for European integration.
Political Science^POL The Arab-Israeli Conflict POL The Arab-Israeli Conflict POL S 325 The Arab-Israeli Conflict (5) I&SThe politics of conflicting ideologies: Zionism and Arab nationalism; formation of the state of Israel; development of Palestinian nationalism; Arab-Israeli wars. Re-emergence of Palestinian activism; domestic sources of foreign policy.
Political Science^POL Scandinavia in World Affairs POL Scandinavia in World Affairs POL S 326 Scandinavia in World Affairs (5) I&S C. INGEBRITSENIntroduction to the foreign relations of Scandinavia with a focus on Nordic security, international economic pressures, and global conflict resolution. Includes a survey of the national settings for international involvements and highlights the dilemmas for industrial societies exposed to the pressures of interdependence. Offered: jointly with SCAND 326.
Political Science^POL Women's Rights as Human Rights POL Women's Rights as Human Rights POL S 327 Women's Rights as Human Rights (5) I&S R. CICHOWSKIWomen's rights in comparative perspective, focusing on varying settings that alter the meaning and practical application. Domestic level: areas including abortion politics to trafficking in women. International level: areas including equality claims before European supranational judicial bodies, rape as war crime in international law. Offered: jointly with LSJ 327.
Political Science^POL International Organizations POL International Organizations POL S 328 International Organizations (5) I&SExplores historical, theoretical, and empirical aspects of the United Nations, its specialized agencies, and other international organizations, both governmental and nongovernmental.
Political Science^POL Global Communication POL Global Communication POL S 329 Global Communication (5) I&SIntroduction to the history, purpose, channels, content, technologies, policy, and regulation of international communications systems. Issues covered include disparities in media development between post-industrial and developing nations, imbalances in international news and information flow, and the emergence of global communications. Offered: jointly with COM 322.
Political Science^POL Communications in International Relations POL Communications in International Relations POL S 330 Communications in International Relations (5) I&SLooks at communications in relations between international groups and states. Examines the range of functions and roles communication media play in international affairs, global issues, and intergroup relations. Also examines the strategic use of communications by various groups. Offered: jointly with COM 321.
Political Science^POL Government and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa POL Government and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa POL S 331 Government and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa (5) I&SBreakdown of traditional society and the problems of building modern political systems.
Political Science^POL Topics in Comparative Politics POL Topics in Comparative Politics POL S 332 Topics in Comparative Politics (5, max. 10)
Political Science^POL Topics in International Relations POL Topics in International Relations POL S 333 Topics in International Relations (5, max. 10)
Political Science^POL Topics in American Politics POL Topics in American Politics POL S 334 Topics in American Politics (5, max. 10)
Political Science^POL Topics in Political Economy POL Topics in Political Economy POL S 335 Topics in Political Economy (5, max. 10)
Political Science^POL Collective Violence and the State POL Collective Violence and the State POL S 337 Collective Violence and the State (5) I&S, DIVComparative study of how and why genocides have occurred in modern times. Examines how ethnic, religious, and nationalist conflicts have sometimes led to violent conflict, and how political leaders and governments have mitigated or exacerbated them, sometimes engaging in state sponsored mass killing. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 337.
Political Science^POL Topics in Public Policy POL Topics in Public Policy POL S 338 Topics in Public Policy (5, max. 10)
Political Science^POL Government and Politics of South Asia POL Government and Politics of South Asia POL S 340 Government and Politics of South Asia (5) I&SComparison of problems of national integration and political development in India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 340.
Political Science^POL Government and Politics of Canada POL Government and Politics of Canada POL S 341 Government and Politics of Canada (5) I&SCritical analysis of parliamentary institutions, political parties, and the federal system in Canada. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 321.
Political Science^POL Government and Politics of Latin America POL Government and Politics of Latin America POL S 342 Government and Politics of Latin America (5) I&SAnalysis of the political dynamics of change in Latin America comparing various national approaches to the political problems of modernization, economic development, and social change. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 342.
Political Science^POL Politics and Change in Southeast Asia POL Politics and Change in Southeast Asia POL S 343 Politics and Change in Southeast Asia (5) I&SGovernment and politics in the countries of Southeast Asia, with attention given to the nature of the social and economic environments that condition them. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 343.
Political Science^POL Governments of Western Europe POL Governments of Western Europe POL S 346 Governments of Western Europe (5) I&SModern government and politics of Great Britain, France, Germany, and Italy.
Political Science^POL European Union as Global Actor POL European Union as Global Actor POL S 348 European Union as Global Actor (5) I&SSurveys the European Union's evolution as a global actor and emergence as a potential superpower with increasingly unified foreign and defense policies. Covers institutions and interests that have driven this process; specific examples of European Union global engagement; and the potential implications for U.S. foreign policy. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 348.
Political Science^POL Government and Interest Groups in the United States POL Government and Interest Groups in the United States POL S 350 Government and Interest Groups in the United States (5) I&SAgrarian, labor, professional, business, and ethnic interest in politics; impact on representative institutions and governmental processes.
Political Science^POL The American Democracy POL The American Democracy POL S 351 The American Democracy (5) I&SDemocratic theory; constitutional theory; the presidency; Congress; the Supreme Court; civil rights and civil liberties. Designed for nonmajors.
Political Science^POL American Political Parties POL American Political Parties POL S 352 American Political Parties (5) I&STheories of American parties, campaigns, and voting behavior; party leadership; political socialization and participation.
Political Science^POL United States Congress POL United States Congress POL S 353 United States Congress (5) I&S J. WILKERSONOrganization and procedure of Congress, state legislative politics, lobbying, legislative roles, theory and practice of representative government.
Political Science^POL Elections and Voting in the United States POL Elections and Voting in the United States POL S 354 Elections and Voting in the United States (5) I&SElectoral institutions and processes of the United States: the idea and practice of elections, the electoral system, individual voting behavior, collective voting behavior, and the impact of elections on policy.
Political Science^POL The American Presidency POL The American Presidency POL S 355 The American Presidency (5) I&S R. THORPEThe American presidency; its evolution, its occupants, and its place within the American system. Topics include presidential character, war, elections, impeachment, the economy, and the Constitution.
Political Science^POL Society and Politics POL Society and Politics POL S 356 Society and Politics (5) I&SCauses of political change in democratic countries, including public opinion, social movements, interest group activity, and party organization. Offered: jointly with SOC 356.
Political Science^POL Minority Representation and the Voting Rights Act POL Minority Representation and the Voting Rights Act POL S 357 Minority Representation and the Voting Rights Act (5) I&SExplores whether and how African-Americans and Latinos are able to organize effectively and press their demands on the political system. Focuses on minority political behavior, the effect of these groups at the polls, the responsiveness of elected officials, and legal or constitutional obstacles affecting these phenomena.
Political Science^POL American Political Culture POL American Political Culture POL S 358 American Political Culture (5)Examines the origins and content of Americans' political values and beliefs. Topics include American exceptionalism, the culture war, freedom, civic engagement, the American dream, individualism, and political ideology.
Political Science^POL U.S. Latino Politics POL U.S. Latino Politics POL S 359 U.S. Latino Politics (5) I&S, DIV M. BARRETOExamines historical and current political incorporation of Latinos in the United States. Topics include Latino voting and voter mobilization, office seeking and representation, Latino public opinion, and public policy formation on "Latino issues." Offered: jointly with CHSTU 359.
Political Science^POL Introduction to United States Constitutional Law POL Introduction to United States Constitutional Law POL S 360 Introduction to United States Constitutional Law (5) I&S G. LOVELLGrowth and development of the United States Constitution as reflected in decisions of the Supreme Court; political, social, and economic effects. Offered: jointly with LSJ 360.
Political Science^POL United States Courts and Civil Liberty POL United States Courts and Civil Liberty POL S 361 United States Courts and Civil Liberty (5) I&S G. LOVELLCases and literature bearing on protection of constitutionally guaranteed private rights, with particular reference to the period since 1937. Offered: jointly with LSJ 361.
Political Science^POL Law in Society POL Law in Society POL S 363 Law in Society (5) I&SInquiry into how law matters in social practice. Examines general theories of law, the workings of legal institutions, and the character of legally constituted practices and relationships in diverse terrains of social life. Instructor: McCann. Offered: jointly with LSJ 363.
Political Science^POL Lawyers in American Politics POL Lawyers in American Politics POL S 365 Lawyers in American Politics (5) I&SInfluence of lawyers on American politics. Official and unofficial political roles, lawyers as lobbyists, as legislators, in the bureaucracy, politics of the American Bar Association. Includes study of legal education, professional values, and avenues of political access.
Political Science^POL Comparative Law and Courts POL Comparative Law and Courts POL S 367 Comparative Law and Courts (5) I&S R. CICHOWSKIIntroduction to comparative judicial politics, focusing on the relationship between law and politics in cross-national perspective, as well as on the functioning of supranational and international legal entities in the international system. May not be taken for credit if student has taken LSJ/JSIS B 366. Offered: jointly with LSJ 367.
Political Science^POL The Politics and Law of International Human Rights POL The Politics and Law of International Human Rights POL S 368 The Politics and Law of International Human Rights (5) I&S, DIV J. MAYERFELDStudies the international human rights movement in its legal and political context. Focuses on institutions which influence, enable, and constrain the international promotion of human rights. Offered: jointly with LSJ 320.
Political Science^POL Privacy POL Privacy POL S 370 Privacy (5) I&S S. PekkanenExplores how individuals, corporations, and governments respond to privacy challenges in the digital age. Examines evolution of the idea of privacy using case studies of actual privacy policies, legal cases, and real-world situations. Covers legal, political, and social facets of this fundamental human issue. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 370/LSJ 370; Sp.
Political Science^POL Urban Politics and Policy in the United States POL Urban Politics and Policy in the United States POL S 381 Urban Politics and Policy in the United States (5) I&S FragaIntroduces actors, institutions, processes, and policies of substate governments in the United States. Provides and intensive comparative examination of historical and contemporary politics and policy-making. Promotes understanding of city government and its role within the larger context of state and national governments.
Political Science^POL State Government POL State Government POL S 382 State Government (5) I&S J. WILKERSONFocus on the structures, processes, and policy outputs of state governments in the United States.
Political Science^POL Environmental Politics and Policy in the United States POL Environmental Politics and Policy in the United States POL S 383 Environmental Politics and Policy in the United States (5) I&SInterrelation between technological and environmental change and policy formation. Consideration of political behavior related to these phenomena and the capacity of urban public organizations to predict change and to formulate policies that can take future states into account.
Political Science^POL Global Environmental Politics POL Global Environmental Politics POL S 384 Global Environmental Politics (5) I&S K. LITFINExamines the globalization of environmental problems, including climate change, ozone depletion, and loss of biodiversity, as well as the globalization of political responses to these problems within the framework of globalization as set of interlinked economic, technological, cultural, and political processes. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 384.
Political Science^POL Political Ecology of the World Food System POL Political Ecology of the World Food System POL S 385 Political Ecology of the World Food System (5) I&S/NW K. LITFINInvestigates the intersection of globalization and food politics, the pivotal role of petroleum in the world food system, and the commodity chains for some foods. Includes an optional service learning component. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 385.
Political Science^POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL S 395 Study Abroad: Political Science (1-10, max. 15) I&SPolitical science courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated.
Political Science^POL Honors Seminar POL Honors Seminar POL S 398 Honors Seminar (5, max. 15) I&SIntensive and advanced studies in various aspects of political science. Open only to participants in the departmental Honors program. Offered: AWSp.
Political Science^POL Advanced Seminar in Political Theory POL Advanced Seminar in Political Theory POL S 401 Advanced Seminar in Political Theory (5, max. 10) I&STopics can include, but are not limited to, analytical theory pertaining to justice, exploitation, and freedom; revolution and social changes; collective choice and action; sexuality and politics; critical theory; Marxist theory; post-structuralism. Content varies.
Political Science^POL Advanced Seminar in Human Rights POL Advanced Seminar in Human Rights POL S 402 Advanced Seminar in Human Rights (5, max. 10) I&S J. MAYERFELDExamines selected human rights topics including questions relating to the meaning, justification, promotion, implementation, suppression, or denial of human rights.
Political Science^POL Advanced Seminar in International Relations POL Advanced Seminar in International Relations POL S 403 Advanced Seminar in International Relations (5, max. 10) I&SExamination of contemporary developments in the field of international relations. Content varies according to the nature of developments and research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Topics in Public Policy POL Topics in Public Policy POL S 404 Topics in Public Policy (3-5, max. 6) I&SExamines selected issues of importance in all areas of public policy. Focus on in-depth analysis of vital public policy issues and the integration of economic, political, and administrative perspectives on them. Offered: jointly with PB AF 499.
Political Science^POL Advanced Seminar in American Politics POL Advanced Seminar in American Politics POL S 405 Advanced Seminar in American Politics (5, max. 10) I&SIntensive reading and research in selected problems or fields of political analysis.
Political Science^POL Marxian Political Economy POL Marxian Political Economy POL S 406 Marxian Political Economy (5) I&SExplores the relationship between social classes, the state, and political power in advanced capitalist societies. Investigates this relationship primarily by means of the tools of Marxian political economy and, in the process, evaluates these tools. Emphasis on theoretical perspectives, although the reading list has a few empirical applications as well.
Political Science^POL International Conflict POL International Conflict POL S 407 International Conflict (5) I&S E. KIER, J. MERCERExamines different theoretical explanations for the causes of war, including the role of international, state, organizational, and individual factors; additional topics vary with instructor. May include the development of warfare, deterring weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, intelligence, and the ethics of warfare.
Political Science^POL Undergraduate Seminar in Political Economy POL Undergraduate Seminar in Political Economy POL S 409 Undergraduate Seminar in Political Economy (5, max. 10) I&SSeminar in political economy with focus on Marxian and public choice approaches to political economy. Explores the questions raised by each approach, the assumption(s) and testability of hypotheses, and applies these approaches to a number of problems in political economy. Offered: jointly with ECON 409.
Political Science^POL Technology, Politics, and the State POL Technology, Politics, and the State POL S 410 Technology, Politics, and the State (5) I&SRelationships between politics and technological change. Considers whether the relations between political and economic systems of industrial societies have been fundamentally altered by the increased importance and interdependence of government, experts, and new technological possibilities for intervention in social life.
Political Science^POL Theories of the State POL Theories of the State POL S 411 Theories of the State (5) I&STopics may include origins and development of the state; arguments about the necessity, desirability, and proper role of the state; the nature and operation of modern states and the international state system; the legitimacy of modern state power.
Political Science^POL Democratic Theory POL Democratic Theory POL S 412 Democratic Theory (5) I&SExplores the concept of democracy and theoretical models purporting to describe its central features: majority rule, participation, and deliberation. Themes also include: representative vs. direct democracy; the rights of minorities; the relationship between democracy and other political theories such as liberalism, socialism, and conservatism.
Political Science^POL Contemporary Political Theory POL Contemporary Political Theory POL S 413 Contemporary Political Theory (5, max. 10) I&SAnalysis of political theorists, exploring contemporary theories of humanity and society that form the basis for differing political ideas.
Political Science^POL Politics and Culture POL Politics and Culture POL S 414 Politics and Culture (5) I&SHow people interpret and shape the political world around them through the use of such cultural resources as language, symbolism, myth, and ritual. The various uses of these cultural elements establish the place of the individual in society, influence the perception of political events, and create opportunities for individual and mass political responses.
Political Science^POL Women's Rights in an Integrated Europe POL Women's Rights in an Integrated Europe POL S 415 Women's Rights in an Integrated Europe (5) I&SExamines the transformation in women's rights policy within the European community from the late 1950s through the present. Focuses on the legal rules and bodies that govern not only these policy domains, but also their evolution and impacts. Offered: jointly with LSJ 428.
Political Science^POL Economic Theory as Applied to the Political System POL Economic Theory as Applied to the Political System POL S 416 Economic Theory as Applied to the Political System (5) I&SExplanation and evaluation of the political system, using elementary economics theory. Topics include alternative voting rules, the political effectiveness of various types of groups, causes and consequences of logrolling, and bureaucratic organizations.
Political Science^POL Political Economy of India POL Political Economy of India POL S 417 Political Economy of India (5) I&SAnalysis of relationships among processes of economic change, political institutions, and structures of political power in contemporary India. Includes contrasting approaches to Indian economic development, land reform, radical and agrarian political movements, and role of foreign aid. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 417.
Political Science^POL Japanese Trade Politics POL Japanese Trade Politics POL S 418 Japanese Trade Politics (5) I&S R. PekkanenSurvey of Japan's foreign trade diplomacy. Examines evolution of Japan's trade patterns in exports and foreign direct investment with key partners. Covers institutional and legal frameworks of Japan's trade relations, such as bilateral fora, regional options including free trade agreements, and multilateral venues such as the WTO. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 487.
Political Science^POL United States-China Relations POL United States-China Relations POL S 419 United States-China Relations (5) I&S BachmanSurveys the history of United States-China relations and examines the evolution of bilateral relations, particularly since 1949. Focus on the period since 1972 and the major issues as they have evolved since that time, including trade, human rights, security, and Taiwan. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 459.
Political Science^POL Soviet and Russian Foreign Policy POL Soviet and Russian Foreign Policy POL S 420 Soviet and Russian Foreign Policy (5) I&SIdeological, historical, and strategic components of Soviet foreign policy; Gorbachev's "new thinking" and the collapse of the USSR; redefining post-Soviet "Russia"; Russian military and security policy; Russia and the West; Russian relations with the newly independent states.
Political Science^POL Relations Among Communist and Post-Communist States POL Relations Among Communist and Post-Communist States POL S 421 Relations Among Communist and Post-Communist States (5) I&SMajor disputes and types of relationships among different communist states; international effects of the communist collapse; comparative dynamics of state-building, market reform, and democratic transition; international integration and domestic politics in the former Soviet bloc; ethnic conflict and the problem of state boundaries; redefining security in the post-communist milieu.
Political Science^POL International Environmental Politics Seminar POL International Environmental Politics Seminar POL S 422 International Environmental Politics Seminar (5) I&SStudy of the practical and theoretical challenges associated with global ecological interdependence. Examination of international treaties and institutions, state, and nonstate actors with an emphasis on the emerging concept of sustainability.
Political Science^POL International Relations of Japan POL International Relations of Japan POL S 424 International Relations of Japan (5) I&S S. PekkanenComprehensive examination of Japan's international relations. Covers issues such as trade, security, environment, aid, and human rights. Investigates Japan's participation in international organizations, including the UN, World Bank, IMF, and WTO. Examines Japan's relations with the United States, the European Union, Asia, Latin America, Africa, and other regions. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 437.
Political Science^POL Political Psychology and War POL Political Psychology and War POL S 425 Political Psychology and War (5) I&S J. MERCERExplores how political scientists use psychology to address questions of war and peace.
Political Science^POL World Politics POL World Politics POL S 426 World Politics (5) I&SThe nation-state system and its alternatives, world distributions of preferences and power, structure of international authority, historical world societies and their politics. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 426.
Political Science^POL International Political Economy POL International Political Economy POL S 427 International Political Economy (5) I&SExamines major theoretical problems, substantive issues, and schools of thought in international political economy (IPE), including issues of trade, production, and finance. Preparation for critical analysis of dilemmas entailed in establishing and maintaining an instrumentally effective and ethically acceptable IPE system.
Political Science^POL Military Intervention POL Military Intervention POL S 428 Military Intervention (5) I&SHistorical and theoretical analysis of military intervention in the post-World War II era. Considers how and why interventions occur and evaluates intervention as a foreign-policy response.
Political Science^POL Political Parties in Japan and East Asia POL Political Parties in Japan and East Asia POL S 429 Political Parties in Japan and East Asia (5) I&S R. PekkanenFocus on political parties in Japan. Combines theoretical readings on political parties with intensive study of Japanese political parties. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 436.
Political Science^POL Civil-Military Relations in Democracies POL Civil-Military Relations in Democracies POL S 430 Civil-Military Relations in Democracies (5) I&S E. KIERExplores issues of civil-military relations in the United States including debates about the garrison state hypothesis; military advice on the use of force; the civil-military "gap"; and issues of race, gender, and sexual orientation in the military.
Political Science^POL International Relations in the Middle East POL International Relations in the Middle East POL S 431 International Relations in the Middle East (5) I&SStudy of domestic sources of foreign policy in the Middle East; politics of oil; the East-West rivalry in the arena; and conflict and collaboration among the local powers.
Political Science^POL Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism POL Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism POL S 432 Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism (5) I&S RobinsonStudy of resurgence, since mid-1970s, of political Islam and what has come to be called Islamic fundamentalism, especially in the Middle East. Topics include the nature and variety of political Islam today, causes and implications of the current resurgence, and comparison with previous resurgences. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 406.
Political Science^POL International Relations in Southeast Asia POL International Relations in Southeast Asia POL S 433 International Relations in Southeast Asia (5) I&SAnalysis of the problems affecting relations among the countries of Southeast Asia.
Political Science^POL International Relations of South Asia POL International Relations of South Asia POL S 434 International Relations of South Asia (5) I&SInterrelationships of domestic, interstate, and extraregional forces and their effects upon the resolution or expansion of interstate conflicts in South Asia. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 434.
Political Science^POL Japanese Government and Politics POL Japanese Government and Politics POL S 435 Japanese Government and Politics (5) I&SGovernment and politics of Japan with emphasis on the period since 1945. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 435.
Political Science^POL Ethnic Politics and Nationalism in Multi-Ethnic Societies POL Ethnic Politics and Nationalism in Multi-Ethnic Societies POL S 436 Ethnic Politics and Nationalism in Multi-Ethnic Societies (5) I&SProvides a broad theoretical base, both descriptive and analytical, for the comparative study of ethnicity and nationalism. Examples drawn from ethnic movements in different societies. Some previous exposure either to introductory courses in political science or to courses in ethnicity in other departments is desirable. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 436.
Political Science^POL Politics in Scandinavia POL Politics in Scandinavia POL S 437 Politics in Scandinavia (5) I&S C. INGEBRITSENTwentieth-century politics in Scandinavia. How Scandinavian countries have been governed. Costs and consequences of their governmental style and its uncertain future. Optimal size of polities, problems of mature welfare states, process of leadership and representation in multiparty systems, decline of political parties. Offered: jointly with SCAND 437.
Political Science^POL Politics in France POL Politics in France POL S 438 Politics in France (5) I&SStudy of contemporary France. Structures of government in the Fifth Republic; nature of French voting behavior and evolution of the bipolarized political party system; behavior of political interest groups; training of France's administrative elite and functioning of the state bureaucracy; dynamics of policy-making.
Political Science^POL Politics of Divided Korea POL Politics of Divided Korea POL S 439 Politics of Divided Korea (5) I&SGovernments, politics, and economy of South and North Korea, the inter-Korea relations, and the two Koreas' relationship with the major powers - especially the United States - with emphasis on the post-cold war period. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 439.
Political Science^POL European Fascism POL European Fascism POL S 440 European Fascism (5) I&SAnalysis of fascism as revolutionary movement and type of political system in post-World War I Europe: Hitler's Third Reich, Mussolini's Italy, and Vichy France. Consideration of dynamics of resistance, policies that produced Holocaust, and questions raised at trials of fascist leaders in Nuremberg and elsewhere.
Political Science^POL Government and Politics of Russia POL Government and Politics of Russia POL S 441 Government and Politics of Russia (5) I&SIdeological and historical bases of Soviet politics; Leninism; Stalinism; Gorbachev's perestroika and the collapse of the USSR; the role of Yeltsin; problems of Russian state-building, market reform, and democratic transition; political parties and civil society; the relationship between the center and the regions; the problem of Russian national identity.
Political Science^POL Government and Politics of China POL Government and Politics of China POL S 442 Government and Politics of China (5) I&S S. WHITINGPost-1949 government and politics, with emphasis on problems of political change in modern China. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 408.
Political Science^POL Comparative Political Societies POL Comparative Political Societies POL S 443 Comparative Political Societies (5) I&SAnalyses of modern and premodern types of stable political society; special attention to contemporary representative democracy.
Political Science^POL Revolutionary Regimes POL Revolutionary Regimes POL S 444 Revolutionary Regimes (5) I&SAnalysis of the several types of political regimes concerned with effecting fundamental social change; emphasis on the twentieth century.
Political Science^POL Politics and Society in Eastern Europe POL Politics and Society in Eastern Europe POL S 445 Politics and Society in Eastern Europe (5) I&SPolitical and social issues in lands east of the Elbe, treating some historical problems but focusing particularly on developments since 1945. Includes all communist states of Eastern Europe and their successors. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 445.
Political Science^POL Advanced Seminar in Comparative Politics POL Advanced Seminar in Comparative Politics POL S 447 Advanced Seminar in Comparative Politics (5, max. 10) I&SSelected comparative political problems, political institutions, processes, and issues in comparative perspective. Strongly
Political Science^POL Politics of the European Union POL Politics of the European Union POL S 448 Politics of the European Union (5) I&SExamines the origins, structures, and political dynamics of the European Union. Attention given to theories of integration, to relations between the European Union and member states, and to the role of the European Union in world politics.
Political Science^POL Politics of Developing Areas POL Politics of Developing Areas POL S 449 Politics of Developing Areas (5) I&SComparative study of problems of national integration and political development in the new states of Asia and Africa.
Political Science^POL Communication Technology and Politics POL Communication Technology and Politics POL S 451 Communication Technology and Politics (5) I&SEmploys some core concepts of political communication and theories of democracy to examine the emerging role of information and communication technologies in candidate and issue campaigning; online voting; protest and advocacy movements; law-making and electronic governance in the United States and internationally. Offered: jointly with COM 407.
Political Science^POL Mass Media and Public Opinion POL Mass Media and Public Opinion POL S 452 Mass Media and Public Opinion (5) I&SExamines the foundations of the idea of public opinion in a democratic environment and the role of mass communication in the organization, implementation, and control of that opinion. Considers these relationships from the perspectives of societal elites, media, and citizens. Offered: jointly with COM 414.
Political Science^POL The State Legislature POL The State Legislature POL S 453 The State Legislature (5) I&SStudy of American state legislatures, with special reference to Washington State legislature. Student must spend several Fridays in Olympia when the legislature is in session. Those desiring a more extensive involvement with the legislature should enroll in the political internship.
Political Science^POL Political Communication Seminar POL Political Communication Seminar POL S 454 Political Communication Seminar (5, max. 10) I&SContemporary topics studying how communication affects citizen engagement with public life. Offered: jointly with COM 411.
Political Science^POL Political Deliberation POL Political Deliberation POL S 455 Political Deliberation (5) I&SExploration of philosophical and empirical writings on political deliberation in small groups, campaigns, and other public settings. Contemporary deliberative theory. Participation in face-to-face discussions on current issues. Offered: jointly with COM 417.
Political Science^POL Institutional Failure POL Institutional Failure POL S 456 Institutional Failure (5) I&S R. THORPEExamines why political institutions fail to achieve their goals or operate in a manner they were originally intended to, and the consequences of these failures. Topics include the national security establishment, the drug war, concentrated poverty, mass incarceration, and inner-city schools. Offered: jointly with LSJ 456.
Political Science^POL Topics in Labor Research POL Topics in Labor Research POL S 457 Topics in Labor Research (5, max. 10) I&SAnalysis of the post-World War II decline of national labor movements and strategies employed to reverse this trend. Requires a major research project on organizing, bargaining, or another question in labor studies.
Political Science^POL Political Economy of the European Union POL Political Economy of the European Union POL S 460 Political Economy of the European Union (5) I&S J. CAPORASOHistorical foundation of the European Economic Community; major phases of its development; theoretical explanations for European integration.
Political Science^POL Mass Media Law POL Mass Media Law POL S 461 Mass Media Law (5) I&SSurvey of laws and regulations that affect the print and broadcast media. Includes material on First Amendment, libel, invasion of privacy, freedom of information, copyright, obscenity, advertising and broadcast regulation, and matters relating to press coverage of the judicial system. Offered: jointly with COM 440.
Political Science^POL The Supreme Court in American Politics POL The Supreme Court in American Politics POL S 462 The Supreme Court in American Politics (5) I&SExplores the US Supreme Court as a political institution. Topics include processes that bring issues before the court, influences on judicial decision making, the impact of the court on democratic processes, the role of the court in constitutional development, and the court's interactions with other branches.
Political Science^POL The Politics of American Criminal Justice POL The Politics of American Criminal Justice POL S 464 The Politics of American Criminal Justice (5) I&SPolitical forces and value choices associated with the enforcement of criminal law. Distribution of resources among participants in the criminal justice system (e.g., police, attorneys, defendants, and judges). Understanding and evaluation of the interaction of criminal justice processes with the political system.
Political Science^POL Law and Public Policy in the United States POL Law and Public Policy in the United States POL S 465 Law and Public Policy in the United States (5) I&SRelationship between law and public policy, with particular attention to problems of social, economic, and political change. Considers legal and constitutional processes as they relate to such problems of public policy as race relations, the environment, and the economy.
Political Science^POL Comparative Law in Society POL Comparative Law in Society POL S 467 Comparative Law in Society (5) I&SLegal systems around the world as they actually work in their respective political, social, and economic contexts. Emergence and development of European legal systems, legal customs at variance with those of Europe, problems of legal processes in the modern state.
Political Science^POL Comparative Media Systems POL Comparative Media Systems POL S 468 Comparative Media Systems (5) I&SProvides students an understanding of policies that shape national communication processes and systems. Uses comparative analysis to identify both similarities and differences among media structures of nations at different levels of development. Primary emphasis on broadcast media. Offered: jointly with COM 420/JSIS B 419.
Political Science^POL Law and Rights in Authoritarian Regimes POL Law and Rights in Authoritarian Regimes POL S 469 Law and Rights in Authoritarian Regimes (5) I&S S. WHITINGExplores role of law and courts and nature of rights in authoritarian regimes. Questions addressed include why authoritarian regimes promote "rule-of-law", who is empowered by law, and the political consequences of "rule-of-law' promotion. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 469/LSJ 469.
Political Science^POL Public Bureaucracies in the American Political Order POL Public Bureaucracies in the American Political Order POL S 470 Public Bureaucracies in the American Political Order (5) I&SGrowth, power, and roles of governmental bureaucracies in America: conflict and conformity with American political thought, other political institutions, and the public.
Political Science^POL Politics of Risk POL Politics of Risk POL S 471 Politics of Risk (5) I&S MayExamines risks that occur infrequently but have catastrophic impacts, including health and environmental harms, terrorism, and natural disasters. Considers social science theorizing about risks, how risks enter the policy agenda, and political and policy responses to different risks within the United States.
Political Science^POL Electoral Systems POL Electoral Systems POL S 472 Electoral Systems (5) I&S R. PekkanenExplores a fundamental link between citizens and political representation: how electoral systems shape party systems, what kinds of people become candidates, how parties work, representation, and policy. Covers effects and mechanics of the various voting systems. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 472.
Political Science^POL Decision-Making in Politics POL Decision-Making in Politics POL S 473 Decision-Making in Politics (5) I&SProcess of decision-making in politics at elite and mass levels, comparison of approaches based on the comprehensive rationality of decision makers with approaches based on limitations on the cognitive capacities of decision makers. Applications to real decision-making situations.
Political Science^POL Government and the Economy POL Government and the Economy POL S 474 Government and the Economy (5) I&SInteraction between politics and the economy. Impact of policy makers on economic performance. Models of partisan and political business cycles. Concepts of economic voting. Marxist theories of modern capitalist economics.
Political Science^POL Public Choice POL Public Choice POL S 475 Public Choice (5) I&S A. GILLProblems and prospects for collective action in a political democracy. Designing rules and institutions for effective central authority and effective constraints on governmental power. Social choice theory and game theory.
Political Science^POL Strategy in Politics POL Strategy in Politics POL S 476 Strategy in Politics (5) I&SExplores the problem of finding fair methods for making social decisions, and examines alternative methods of social choice. Emphasis on the importance of agenda control for outcomes, and the implications of theories of social choice for common interpretations of concepts such as democracy and the general will.
Political Science^POL African Politcal Development POL African Politcal Development POL S 477 African Politcal Development (5) I&STopics in contemporary African politics related to development of the African state in comparative perspective, including state formation; nationalism and the struggle for independence; civil wars, genocide, and under-development; democratic transition, elections, and voting; economic growth; film and literature; gender and ethnicity; and corruption and terrorism.
Political Science^POL Contemporary Central Asian Politics POL Contemporary Central Asian Politics POL S 479 Contemporary Central Asian Politics (5) I&S RadnitzExamines the politics of contemporary post-Soviet Central Asia. Analyzes issues relevant to the region in comparative perspective, including democratization, religion, terrorism, civil society, economic reform, ethnic identity, and international influences. Uses theory to shed light on current policy debates. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 479.
Political Science^POL Comparative Politics and Korea Studies POL Comparative Politics and Korea Studies POL S 480 Comparative Politics and Korea Studies (5) I&S HaApproaches Korean politics, political economy, and society from a comparative perspective. Examples of major comparative questions based on Korean case include democratization, strong state dynamics, civil society, and impact of globalization. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 466.
Political Science^POL Big City Politics POL Big City Politics POL S 481 Big City Politics (5) I&SContemporary big city politics, focusing on Seattle and the largest 25 cities. Social, economic, and political trends that have shaped characteristics of large American cities. Distribution and use of economic and political power among parties and groups. Future of large cities and politics of change.
Political Science^POL Honors Senior Thesis POL Honors Senior Thesis POL S 488 Honors Senior Thesis (5-) I&SPolitical Science Honors students individually arrange for independent study of selected topics under the direction of a faculty member. Research paper is student's honors thesis.
Political Science^POL Honors Senior Thesis POL Honors Senior Thesis POL S 489 Honors Senior Thesis (-5) I&SPolitical Science Honors students individually arrange for independent study of selected topics under the direction of a faculty member. Research paper is student's honors thesis.
Political Science^POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL Study Abroad: Political Science POL S 495 Study Abroad: Political Science (1-10, max. 20) I&SPolitical science courses taken through a UW approved study abroad program for which there are no direct UW equivalents. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated.
Political Science^POL Undergraduate Internship POL Undergraduate Internship POL S 496 Undergraduate Internship (2-5, max. 15)Students serving in approved internships.
Political Science^POL Political Internship in State Government POL Political Internship in State Government POL S 497 Political Internship in State Government (5, max. 20)Students serving in approved internship program with state government agencies.
Political Science^POL The Washington Center Internship POL The Washington Center Internship POL S 498 The Washington Center Internship (15)Full-time academic internship with the Washington Center in Washington, DC. Includes internship activities, academic seminar, assemblies, and related activities.
Political Science^POL Undergraduate Readings and Research POL Undergraduate Readings and Research POL S 499 Undergraduate Readings and Research (1-5, max. 20)Intensive study with faculty supervision.
Political Science^POL Political Research Design and Analysis POL Political Research Design and Analysis POL S 500 Political Research Design and Analysis (5)Major quantitative methods of empirical research in political science. Primary emphasis on research design, data collection, data analysis, and use of computers.
Political Science^POL Advanced Political Research Design and Analysis POL Advanced Political Research Design and Analysis POL S 501 Advanced Political Research Design and Analysis (5)Testing theories with empirical evidence. Examines current topics in research methods and statistical analysis in political science. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and with interests of instructor. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 501.
Political Science^POL Qualitative Research Methods POL Qualitative Research Methods POL S 502 Qualitative Research Methods (5)Introduction to qualitative methods in political science, emphasizing practical experience with techniques. Readings and exercises cover research design, multiple methods, varieties of qualitative data, measurement and validation, participant observation, interviewing, and content analysis. Research decision-making issues include analytical strategies, presentation of data, ethics, epistemology, and theory-building.
Political Science^POL Advanced Quantitative Political Methodology POL Advanced Quantitative Political Methodology POL S 503 Advanced Quantitative Political Methodology (5)Theory and practice of likelihood inference. Includes probability modeling, maximum likelihood estimation, models for binary responses, count models, sample selection, and basis time series analysis. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 503.
Political Science^POL Multi-Method Field Research POL Multi-Method Field Research POL S 504 Multi-Method Field Research (5) J. LONG IVProvides training in how to design and implement multi-method field research in American, comparative, and international politics, covering qualitative/ethnographic approaches; survey design, implementation, and analysis; and the design and implementation of field experiments and randomized impact evaluation.
Political Science^POL Comparative Politics Core POL Comparative Politics Core POL S 505 Comparative Politics Core (5)Modern theories, approaches, and methods in the study of comparative politics.
Political Science^POL Political Theory Core POL Political Theory Core POL S 509 Political Theory Core (5, max. 10)Central themes in political theory and the works of major political theorists, past and present.
Political Science^POL Maximum Likelihood Methods for the Social Sciences POL Maximum Likelihood Methods for the Social Sciences POL S 510 Maximum Likelihood Methods for the Social Sciences (5) C. ADOLPHIntroduces maximum likelihood, a more general method for modeling social phenomena than linear regression. Topics include discrete, time series, and spatial data, model interpretation, and fitting.
Political Science^POL Seminar in Ethical and Political Theory POL Seminar in Ethical and Political Theory POL S 511 Seminar in Ethical and Political Theory (5)Ethical writings of major political philosophers. Coherent themes arising from these works and assessment of their impact on concepts of politics.
Political Science^POL Issues in Feminist Theory POL Issues in Feminist Theory POL S 513 Issues in Feminist Theory (5, max. 10)Contemporary issues in feminist theory as they affect studies of women, politics, and society. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Selected Topics in Political Theory POL Selected Topics in Political Theory POL S 514 Selected Topics in Political Theory (5, max. 15)Selected topics, historical and conceptual, national, regional, and universal.
Political Science^POL Political Theory Research Seminar POL Political Theory Research Seminar POL S 515 Political Theory Research Seminar (5)Survey of paradigmatic research approaches in political theory through the exploration of a theme (canonical text, theoretical concept, and specific topic). Methods covered may include rational choice, psychoanalytic, Straussian, Marxian, and feminist approaches. Students carry out substantive theoretical research.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in American Political Thought POL Special Topics in American Political Thought POL S 516 Special Topics in American Political Thought (3/5)Special topics or themes in the development of American political culture.
Political Science^POL Marxism and Critical Theory POL Marxism and Critical Theory POL S 517 Marxism and Critical Theory (5)Works of Marx and Engels as well as selected works of twentieth-century Marxist and critical theorists. Themes such as Marx's method, twentieth-century interpretations of Marx, and relationship of twentieth-century theorists to their eighteenth- and nineteenth-century forebears.
Political Science^POL Modern Scandinavian Politics POL Modern Scandinavian Politics POL S 519 Modern Scandinavian Politics (5)Analyzes the political, economic, and historical development of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, and Finland from World War II to the present. Readings focus on domestic and foreign policies that distinguish these countries from other advanced industrial societies. Offered: jointly with SCAND 519.
Political Science^POL Seminar on Russian Foreign Policy POL Seminar on Russian Foreign Policy POL S 520 Seminar on Russian Foreign Policy (3)Selected topics in the development and objectives of the foreign policy of the Russian Federation.
Political Science^POL International Relations Core POL International Relations Core POL S 521 International Relations Core (5)Key theories, concepts, and debates in the study of world politics and international relations. Provides an overview of the field and prepares students for the IR comprehensive exam.
Political Science^POL International Political Economy POL International Political Economy POL S 522 International Political Economy (5)Theories of international political economy. Focuses on the emergence and development of the modern world system, the transition from feudalism to capitalism, and the institution of the nation-state system. Examines the political economy of trade, investment, and the international division of labor from a variety of theoretical perspectives.
Political Science^POL International Security POL International Security POL S 524 International Security (5) E. KIERIntroduces some of the major debates concerning the use of force in international politics. Covers traditional issues in international security such as alliances and the causes of war, as well as some of the new and important questions, such as explaining war outcomes and war termination.
Political Science^POL International Law and Institutions POL International Law and Institutions POL S 525 International Law and Institutions (5) K. LITFINInputs of international law into the decisional process in foreign policy. Effect of policy on law. Relevant roles of individuals and institutions in routine and crisis situations.
Political Science^POL The Security of China POL The Security of China POL S 526 The Security of China (5) BachmanExamines how the Chinese state conceptualizes its national security interests and how it pursues strategies designed to achieve those interests. Topics include use of force, military modernization, civil-military relations, and defense industrialization. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 526.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in International Relations Research POL Special Topics in International Relations Research POL S 527 Special Topics in International Relations Research (5, max. 15)Examination of current topics in the theory and practice of world politics. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Transatlantic Relations: The United States and Europe in World Politics POL Transatlantic Relations: The United States and Europe in World Politics POL S 530 Transatlantic Relations: The United States and Europe in World Politics (3)Fulfills required component of "American Module" of Transatlantic Studies program. Addresses political dynamics of relations between United States and Europe from American republic's founding to post-Cold War era. Limited to students in Transatlantic Studies program.
Political Science^POL The Chinese Political System POL The Chinese Political System POL S 532 The Chinese Political System (5) S. WHITINGExamination of key approaches, interpretations, and secondary literature in the study of contemporary Chinese politics. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 532.
Political Science^POL Seminar on Contemporary Chinese Politics POL Seminar on Contemporary Chinese Politics POL S 533 Seminar on Contemporary Chinese Politics (5)Research on selected problems in contemporary Chinese politics.
Political Science^POL International Affairs POL International Affairs POL S 534 International Affairs (3)Provides a broad understanding of international issues and United States policy. Students explore U.S. foreign policy and theories of major international actors in international trade, security, and strategic concerns, refugee policy, conflict resolution, development assistance, and the environment. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 534/PB AF 530.
Political Science^POL International Relations of Modern China POL International Relations of Modern China POL S 535 International Relations of Modern China (5)Foreign policy of the People's Republic of China: historical antecedents; domestic and international systemic determinants; and Chinese policies toward major states, regions, and issues.
Political Science^POL Approaches to East European Politics POL Approaches to East European Politics POL S 537 Approaches to East European Politics (3-5)Selected concepts and methodologies useful for the analysis of politics and social structure in the socialist countries of east-central and southeastern Europe.
Political Science^POL Government and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa POL Government and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa POL S 538 Government and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa (5)Political change in the area within the context of comparative politics; breakdown of traditional political systems; new range of choice expressed in competing ideologies; governmental and nongovernmental instrumentation of change; and problems of international relations and regional conflict and integration.
Political Science^POL International Relations of Northeast Asia POL International Relations of Northeast Asia POL S 539 International Relations of Northeast Asia (5) HellmannComprehensive survey of contemporary international relations of Northeast Asia with emphasis on Russia, Japan, China, and the United States. Multidisciplinary approach placing contemporary problems in historical context, drawing on modern social science theories. Connections between defense and economics are examined.
Political Science^POL Problems in South Asian Politics POL Problems in South Asian Politics POL S 540 Problems in South Asian Politics (3)Research problems in contemporary Indian politics.
Political Science^POL Institutions and Institutional Change in the Soviet Union, Russia, and the Newly Independent States POL Institutions and Institutional Change in the Soviet Union, Russia, and the Newly Independent States POL S 541 Institutions and Institutional Change in the Soviet Union, Russia, and the Newly Independent States (5)Critical appraisal of the principal theories and research methods dealing with the development of the Soviet state from 1917-1991 and the formation of the newly independent states after the Soviet collapse.
Political Science^POL Seminar: State and Society POL Seminar: State and Society POL S 542 Seminar: State and Society (5) MigdalExamines the mutually conditioning relationship between states and the societies they seek to govern. Studies states as large, complex organizations and their interactions with society on different levels. Shows that interactions on any level affect the nature of the state on other levels as well. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 542.
Political Science^POL Latin American Politics POL Latin American Politics POL S 543 Latin American Politics (5)Theories of authoritarianism, corporatism, democratization, and revolution in Latin America. Explores role of international and domestic economic factors shaping politics and the effect of politics on economic development. Examines elite behavior and grassroots social movements.
Political Science^POL Problems in Comparative Government POL Problems in Comparative Government POL S 544 Problems in Comparative Government (5, max. 15)Selected problems in the comparative analysis of political institutions, organizations, and systems.
Political Science^POL Politics of Reform POL Politics of Reform POL S 547 Politics of Reform (5)Examines cases of reform in democratic political systems, e.g., Roosevelt's New Deal, Allende's Chilean "revolution," Mitterand's socialist experiment in France, and the Thatcher government in Britain.
Political Science^POL Comparative Political Parties POL Comparative Political Parties POL S 548 Comparative Political Parties (5)Role of political parties in the modern state. Similarities and differences in origins and development of political parties and functions they perform, both in established democracies and in developing countries.
Political Science^POL Problems of Political Development POL Problems of Political Development POL S 549 Problems of Political Development (5)Concepts of development and modernization, with particular attention to their political dimensions and their application to various historical and contemporary cases.
Political Science^POL American Politics Core POL American Politics Core POL S 550 American Politics Core (5)Systematic survey of the American government and politics literature; focuses on national politics.
Political Science^POL Political Communication POL Political Communication POL S 551 Political Communication (5)Surveys classic works and new directions in political communication, including functionalist, structuralist, constructivist, network, and comparative approaches, reflecting a range of methods. Examines political organizing, electoral and legislative processes, civic (dis)engagement, media and politics, public deliberation and opinion formation, political identify and discourse. Offered: jointly with COM 551.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in Political Communication POL Special Topics in Political Communication POL S 552 Special Topics in Political Communication (5, max. 10)Examination of current topics in the theory and practice of political communication.
Political Science^POL Public Opinion POL Public Opinion POL S 553 Public Opinion (5) C. PARKERSelected problems in opinion formation, characteristics, and role of public opinion in policy-making process.
Political Science^POL Legislative Politics POL Legislative Politics POL S 554 Legislative Politics (5)Selected problems in legislative processes and leadership, state and national.
Political Science^POL American Politics Topics POL American Politics Topics POL S 555 American Politics Topics (5, max. 10)Examination of current topics in the theory and practice of American politics. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL American Political Development POL American Political Development POL S 556 American Political Development (5)Examination of leading works in, and theories of, American political development. Topics include the development approach itself; critical junctures in U.S. political history; key changes in institutions, the American state, the representation of interests and party politics; and the relevance of development studies to current politics.
Political Science^POL United States Party System POL United States Party System POL S 557 United States Party System (5)Examines the institutional and behavioral foundations of party politics in the United States, emphasizing key historical patterns of party system development and the major scholarly approaches to the study of the American parties and party politics.
Political Science^POL Political Deliberation POL Political Deliberation POL S 558 Political Deliberation (5) GastilExploration of deliberative theories of democracy and research on political discussion in campaigns, face-to-face meetings, on-line forums, and informal conversations. Presents different uses and understandings of deliberation and its role in democratic governance. Offered: jointly with COM 555.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in Political Methodology POL Special Topics in Political Methodology POL S 559 Special Topics in Political Methodology (5, max. 10)Examination of current topics on the theory and practice of political methodology. Course content varies according to recent developments in the field and the research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Industrialization and International Relations POL Industrialization and International Relations POL S 560 Industrialization and International Relations (5) HaExamines internal-external linkage with a focus on industrialization and international relations. Comparative perspective on the question of how industrialization shapes distinctive international perspectives in terms of perception, strategies, and foreign policy behaviors. Countries covered: South Korea, Japan, Prussia, the Soviet Union, and China. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 552.
Political Science^POL Law and Politics POL Law and Politics POL S 561 Law and Politics (5) McCann, Lovell.Points and levels at which law and politics intersect. What is distinctive about legal forms; how these legal forms influence, and are influenced by, politics. Conceptions of law, courts and public policy, law and bureaucracy, civil and criminal justice, and the legal profession.
Political Science^POL Law, Politics, and Social Control POL Law, Politics, and Social Control POL S 562 Law, Politics, and Social Control (5)Explores works of social scientists and lawyers regarding these competing conceptions of social control: as the seamy side of law - reinforcing equitable patterns of domination and disciplining deviants; as law embodying society's basic values, articulating minimum rules for harmonious social interaction.
Political Science^POL Supreme Court in American Politics POL Supreme Court in American Politics POL S 563 Supreme Court in American Politics (5)Explores the tendency in the United States to turn to the Supreme Court to provide constitutional solutions for some of our biggest social, economic, and political problems. Focuses on the controversies concerning the legitimacy and capacity of the Supreme Court to intervene in American politics and public policy.
Political Science^POL Law and the Politics of Social Change POL Law and the Politics of Social Change POL S 564 Law and the Politics of Social Change (5)Explores the many ways that law figures into the politics of social struggle and reform activity. Analyzes law in terms of particular state institutions (courts, agencies), professional elites (lawyers, judges), and especially cultural norms ("rights" discourses) that are routinely mobilized by reform-movement activists.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in Public Law POL Special Topics in Public Law POL S 565 Special Topics in Public Law (5, max. 10)Examination of current topics on the theory and practice of public law. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Comparative Law and Politics POL Comparative Law and Politics POL S 566 Comparative Law and Politics (5) R. CICHOWSKIStudy of the interaction between law and politics, at both the macro and micro levels of politics, and discussion of research drawing from a wide array of geographical settings. Examination in comparative context of whether macro-structures are autonomous from underlying social structures of power and interest in the micro-level.
Political Science^POL Discourse and the Politics of Resistance POL Discourse and the Politics of Resistance POL S 567 Discourse and the Politics of Resistance (5)Examines how disciplines theorize and empirically study discourse in the politics of resistance. Examines the discursive turn in U.S. and European "new" social movement theory. Ranges across disciplines, such as political sociology, cultural anthropology and human geography, to discover ways in which discourse is conceptualized and studied for its role in seeding social change. Offered: jointly with COM 554.
Political Science^POL Law and Rights in Authoritative Regimes POL Law and Rights in Authoritative Regimes POL S 569 Law and Rights in Authoritative Regimes (5)Explores role of law and courts and the nature of rights in authoritarian regimes. Questions addressed include why authoritarian regimes promote "rule-of-law", who is empowered by law, and the political consequences of "rule-of-law promotion. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 569.
Political Science^POL The American Racial State POL The American Racial State POL S 570 The American Racial State (5)Explores the mutually constitutive relationship between race and American political institutions, beginning with theories of race and racial constructions, race-making and nation-making, racial triangulation, and intersectionality. Examines various institutions and public policies as manifestations of the American racial state, focusing on the epistemological challenges of identifying race, racism, and racialization.
Political Science^POL American National Institutions POL American National Institutions POL S 571 American National Institutions (5)Answers the question, "Do institutions matter?" Surveys American national institutions from theoretical perspectives, focusing on how they affect the manner in which decisions are made. Employs cross-institutional perspective of American institutions.
Political Science^POL Electoral Systems POL Electoral Systems POL S 572 Electoral Systems (5) R. PekkanenExplores a fundamental link between citizens and political representation: how electoral systems shape party systems, what kinds of people become candidates, how parties work, representation, and policy. Covers effects and mechanics of the various voting systems. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 572.
Political Science^POL Topics in Public Policy POL Topics in Public Policy POL S 573 Topics in Public Policy (5, max. 10)Specialized research topics with a policy process or related theoretical content.
Political Science^POL Environmental Regulation Policy POL Environmental Regulation Policy POL S 574 Environmental Regulation Policy (5)Scholarly and practical aspects of environmental regulation. Examines literature concerning regulatory policy design, policy instruments, federalism, compliance, and enforcement. Studies selected federal, state, and other nations' environmental policies. Participants are expected to have a good understanding of American policy processes.
Political Science^POL Public Policy Processes POL Public Policy Processes POL S 575 Public Policy Processes (5)Covers political science research about policy processes. Research seminar addressing frameworks and perspectives on policy processes as they concern issue emergence, agenda dynamics, policy subsystems, policy learning, and implementation.
Political Science^POL Political Culture POL Political Culture POL S 576 Political Culture (5)Values, beliefs, and rituals that guide political action in society. Some approaches emphasize symbolic sphere of value and belief over material conditions of power and economic production. Other approaches emphasize material relations. Reconciliation of symbolic and materialist approaches that explain intervention of the modern state in cultural processes.
Political Science^POL The Politics of Social Movements POL The Politics of Social Movements POL S 577 The Politics of Social Movements (5)Theoretical inquiry directed to questions of collective action and political tactics by social movement groups. Case studies include labor, civil rights, women's, environmental, and other movements in twentieth-century United States.
Political Science^POL Health Politics and Policy POL Health Politics and Policy POL S 578 Health Politics and Policy (5)Introduces central themes of health-policy research: health is not healthcare and politics has much to do with why our healthcare system works as it does. Investigates how social science helps us understand health issues.
Political Science^POL Contemporary Central Asian Politics POL Contemporary Central Asian Politics POL S 579 Contemporary Central Asian Politics (5) RadnitzExamines the politics of contemporary post-Soviet Central Asia. Analyzes issues relevant to the region in comparative perspective, including democratization, religion, terrorism, civil society, economic reform, ethnic identity, and international influences. Uses theory to shed light on current policy debates. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 579.
Political Science^POL Comparative Politics and Korea Studies POL Comparative Politics and Korea Studies POL S 580 Comparative Politics and Korea Studies (5) HaApproaches Korean politics, political economy, and society from a comparative perspective. Examples of major comparative questions based on Korean case include democratization, strong state dynamics, civil society, and impact of globalization. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 566.
Political Science^POL Institutional Analysis POL Institutional Analysis POL S 582 Institutional Analysis (3/5)Social change and property rights theory. Exploration of long-term secular change through works whose approaches derive from neoclassical economics and analytical Marxism. Evolution and transformation of property rights over land, labor, and capital and the consequences of the property rights structure for political and economic institutions.
Political Science^POL Economic Theories of Politics POL Economic Theories of Politics POL S 583 Economic Theories of Politics (5)Problems of public goods provision and collective action. Collective action theories and applications as well as critical review of the concept of rationality.
Political Science^POL Comparative Political Economy POL Comparative Political Economy POL S 584 Comparative Political Economy (5)Overview of current developments in comparative political economy. Topics may include globalization, the welfare state, partisan models of economic policymaking, economic development, and trade.
Political Science^POL Topics in International Political Economy POL Topics in International Political Economy POL S 586 Topics in International Political Economy (5, max. 10)Examination of current topics in the theory and practice of international political economy. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Politics of Urban Reform POL Politics of Urban Reform POL S 587 Politics of Urban Reform (5)Interpretations of urban reformers at turn of this century and during 1960s and 1970s. Historical and political science literature on the subject.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in Comparative Political Economy POL Special Topics in Comparative Political Economy POL S 588 Special Topics in Comparative Political Economy (5, max. 10)Examination of current topics in the theory and practice of comparative political economy. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and research interests of the instructor.
Political Science^POL Special Topics in Political Economy POL Special Topics in Political Economy POL S 589 Special Topics in Political Economy (3-5, max. 10)Evaluating research in political economy as well as developing research problems. Topics vary with instructor and with current problems in the literature.
Political Science^POL Seminar in Political Behavior POL Seminar in Political Behavior POL S 590 Seminar in Political Behavior (5, max. 10)Analysis of behavioral research in selected fields of political science.
Political Science^POL Theories of Decision Making POL Theories of Decision Making POL S 593 Theories of Decision Making (5)Explanation of political decisions using models of such theoretical processes as preference formation, learning, heuristics, noncooperative games, collective action, agenda manipulation, and coalition formation. Examination of competing notions of political rationality and irrationality and criteria for their evaluation. Strategies for design of decision research.
Political Science^POL Political Communication Research Practicum: Community, Communication, and Civic Engagement POL Political Communication Research Practicum: Community, Communication, and Civic Engagement POL S 594 Political Communication Research Practicum: Community, Communication, and Civic Engagement (5)Overview of the research process, including literature review, hypothesis generation, data gathering, empirical analysis, and writing for publication Topics vary with instructor, but generally address questions of how communication affects democracy and citizen engagement in national or international contests. Offered: jointly with COM 556.
Political Science^POL College Teaching of Political Science POL College Teaching of Political Science POL S 595 College Teaching of Political Science (1)
Political Science^POL Directed Readings POL Directed Readings POL S 597 Directed Readings (1-10, max. 10)Intensive reading in the literatures of political science, directed by the chair of the doctoral Supervisory Committee.
Political Science^POL Independent Writing I POL Independent Writing I POL S 598 Independent Writing I (1-5, max. 5)Supervised research and writing for graduate students completing the MA essay of distinction.
Political Science^POL Independent Study or Research POL Independent Study or Research POL S 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)
Political Science^POL Doctoral Dissertation POL Doctoral Dissertation POL S 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-)
Pharmacy^Medications and Health: It's Not All About Drugs Medications and Health: It's Not All About Drugs PHARM 301 Medications and Health: It's Not All About Drugs (3) I&S/NW Dawson, Odegard, WeberCovers personal health promotion, treatment of illness, and health care. Explores several medication-related topics, provides insight on drug development and efficacy, and serves as introduction to students contemplating careers in health sciences, especially in pharmacy.
Pharmacy^Profession of Pharmacy Profession of Pharmacy PHARM 500 Profession of Pharmacy (1) Kedzierski, WeberIntroduces the new student to the profession of pharmacy. Provides both an historical and a modern context that assists student pharmacists begin to participate in the profession. Provides an overview of career opportunities.
Pharmacy^P-Alternative and Complementary Medicines P-Alternative and Complementary Medicines PHARM 501 P-Alternative and Complementary Medicines (2) AndersonStudies popular alternative and complementary medicines used in the United States. Focuses on herbal products with some coverage of other non-nutritional dietary supplements. Open to professional and graduate students in the Schools of Pharmacy, Nursing, Medicine, Dentistry, and Public Health, or by permission of instructor. Offered: AW.
Pharmacy^Senior Care Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience Senior Care Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience PHARM 503 Senior Care Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience (2) Murphy, PleinUnder faculty supervision, provides clinical services for senior patients in various settings. Includes reviewing charts, interviewing patients, collaborating with other health care providers, and making recommendations on medication therapies to providers and patients. All students participate in an orientation/seminar workshop and in a weekly (for five weeks) clinical pearls workshop.
Pharmacy^P-Principles of Evidence Based Medicine III: Critical Evaluation of Published Evidence P-Principles of Evidence Based Medicine III: Critical Evaluation of Published Evidence PHARM 509 P-Principles of Evidence Based Medicine III: Critical Evaluation of Published Evidence (1) O'SullivanProvides a critical evaluation of medical literature.
Pharmacy^Contemporary Concepts in Clinical Nutrition Support Contemporary Concepts in Clinical Nutrition Support PHARM 510 Contemporary Concepts in Clinical Nutrition Support (1) ChanAddresses current topics and concepts in clinical nutrition support. Topics include assessment and management of patients requiring specialized nutrition support, enteral nutrition, and parental nutrition.
Pharmacy^P-Medical Devices for Home Healthcare P-Medical Devices for Home Healthcare PHARM 513 P-Medical Devices for Home Healthcare (3) DowningStudy of medical devices commonly provided by pharmacists to their patients, including their selection and adaptation for specific patient needs. Lectures include display and demonstration of actual devices.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics for Advanced Nursing Practice Pharmacotherapeutics for Advanced Nursing Practice PHARM 514 Pharmacotherapeutics for Advanced Nursing Practice (3) HertigApplication of principles of pharmacology as foundation for clinical decision making by advanced practice nurses for individuals and populations. Incorporates pharmacotherapy into advanced nursing therapeutics by addressing pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, pharmacogenetics as wells as patient- related factors that support selection of commonly used drugs. Selected drugs within categories are compared/contrasted.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics for Acute/Critical Illness Pharmacotherapeutics for Acute/Critical Illness PHARM 515 Pharmacotherapeutics for Acute/Critical Illness (3) CoyneAnalysis of issues that impact the assessment, prescription, and evaluation of pharmacotherapeutic regimes for patients who are acutely or critically ill. Current research, clinical contextual considerations, and pharmacotherapeutic principles are emphasized as the basis for decisions relevant to the management of pharmacotherapy in acute care clinical practice.
Pharmacy^Introduction to Biomedical Regulatory Affairs Introduction to Biomedical Regulatory Affairs PHARM 516 Introduction to Biomedical Regulatory Affairs (3) HazletSurveys government oversight of drugs, devices, and biotechnology derived products; laws and regulations that apply to development, testing, and production; and responsibilities of a regulatory affairs specialist in the regulatory setting.
Pharmacy^Product Development and Manufacturing Systems Product Development and Manufacturing Systems PHARM 517 Product Development and Manufacturing Systems (3) HazletSurveys government oversight of drugs, devices, and biotechnology derived products; laws and regulations that apply to development, testing, and production.
Pharmacy^Product Testing, Evaluation, and Post-Market Issues Product Testing, Evaluation, and Post-Market Issues PHARM 518 Product Testing, Evaluation, and Post-Market Issues (3) HazletMedical product post-marketing requirements; reporting and enforcement actions; inspections (internal and by regulators) preparation, conduct, and follow-up actions; surveillance and studies, reimbursement, and economics.
Pharmacy^P-Introduction to Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research P-Introduction to Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research PHARM 520 P-Introduction to Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (2) VeenstraProvides an introduction to economic evaluation and outcomes research related to pharmaceuticals and other healthcare technologies. Covers the methods of cost-effectiveness analysis and quality of life evaluation, and their use in real-world decision-making.
Pharmacy^P-Pharmacy Teaching Practicum P-Pharmacy Teaching Practicum PHARM 521 P-Pharmacy Teaching Practicum (1-3, max. 6) Allen, Dawson, HammerAllows students the opportunity to apply learning about education in a mentored experiences. Students serve as assistant instructors in existing pharmacy courses or engage in other approved educational experiences.
Pharmacy^P-The Nature of Scientific Truth P-The Nature of Scientific Truth PHARM 522 P-The Nature of Scientific Truth (2) HanstenDrawing on the wisdom of scientists and philosophers, discussion of the nature and limitations of scientific truth, using examples from the practice of pharmacy whenever possible. Emphasizes reasoning errors that are common in science, particularly those that involve the application of scientific information to clinical practice.
Pharmacy^P-Advanced Compounding Skills P-Advanced Compounding Skills PHARM 525 P-Advanced Compounding Skills (1) Lawhorn, NeedhamPrepares the student to create unique, patient-specific pharmaceutical dosage forms used in contemporary pharmacy practice. Includes pre-readings and assignments, a didactic session and a laboratory session, and is offered over a weekend.
Pharmacy^Introduction to Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis of Evidence Introduction to Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis of Evidence PHARM 529 Introduction to Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis of Evidence (3) E. DEVINE, F. WOLFConceptual understanding of the quantitative methods used to synthesize evidence. Methods for pooling evidence across independent studies, pooling binary/continuous outcomes, differences between fixed and random effects models, and guidelines for appraising published systematic reviews/meta-analyses.
Pharmacy^Methods in Pharmaceutical Policy Analysis Methods in Pharmaceutical Policy Analysis PHARM 532 Methods in Pharmaceutical Policy Analysis (4) Garrison, HazletIntroduction to the tools used in and the framework and dominant contexts for pharmaceuticals policy development and analysis. Methods reviewed in a series of sessions presenting a specific method and case analyses involving pharmaceuticals development. Project and in-class presentation required.
Pharmacy^Pharmacoepidemiology Pharmacoepidemiology PHARM 533 Pharmacoepidemiology (3) Boudreau, HeckbertOverview of pharmacoepidemiology including drug development and approval; application of epidemiologic methods to study drug safety and effectiveness; exploration of the interplay between research and public policy; introduction to resources for information about drugs; introduction to pharmacology principles pertinent to pharmacoepidemiology.
Pharmacy^Economic Evaluation in Health and Medicine Economic Evaluation in Health and Medicine PHARM 534 Economic Evaluation in Health and Medicine (3) Garrison, VeenstraMethods and techniques for evaluating costs and cost-effectiveness of health, medical, and pharmaceutical interventions. Emphasis on economic evaluation, decision analysis, and modeling techniques for resource allocation and decision making. Applications to technology assessment, health policy, clinical practice, and resource allocation.
Pharmacy^Assessing Outcomes in Health and Medicine Assessing Outcomes in Health and Medicine PHARM 535 Assessing Outcomes in Health and Medicine (3) Devine, EdwardsConcepts and methods for developing and using patient-reported outcomes in health and medicine. Emphasis on patient self-reported health status and quality of life. Qualitative research and psychometric methods applied to health outcomes assessment and all applications.
Pharmacy^Advanced Methods in Economic and Outcomes Evaluation in Health and Medicine Advanced Methods in Economic and Outcomes Evaluation in Health and Medicine PHARM 536 Advanced Methods in Economic and Outcomes Evaluation in Health and Medicine (3) CarlsonCovers advanced methods and techniques for evaluating costs, outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of health, medical, and pharmaceutical interventions. Topics include: network meta-analysis, Markov modeling, probabilistic sensitivity analysis, value of information analysis, utility mapping, conjoint analysis, and budget impact analysis.
Pharmacy^P-Chemical Dependency Concepts P-Chemical Dependency Concepts PHARM 537 P-Chemical Dependency Concepts (2) KedzierskiExamines the development of therapeutic frame for working with patients with addictions. Includes the genesis of addiction harm reduction strategies, legal and ethical considerations, medication management in the substance-abusing population, impaired pharmacist rehabilitation, detection and dealing with substance abuse issues in pharmacy practice, community resources. Course offered to professional PharmD, class 2. Offered: A.
Pharmacy^P-Chemical Dependency Issues in Practice P-Chemical Dependency Issues in Practice PHARM 538 P-Chemical Dependency Issues in Practice (3) KedzierskiEmphasis on drug classes, pharmacologic management of abstinence and withdrawal, drug testing, drug use in pregnancy, treatment options and recovery, codependency and legal and ethical considerations.
Pharmacy^P-Principles of Professional Practice Management P-Principles of Professional Practice Management PHARM 539 P-Principles of Professional Practice Management (3) Downing, SomaniEmphasizes the major issues and barriers of providing pharmaceutical care in institutional and community pharmacies. Topics include evaluating workflow and facility design, complying with legal and safety standards, managing drug distribution services, payment for pharmacist services, human resource management and marketing pharmaceutical care services.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy, Healthcare, and Society Pharmacy, Healthcare, and Society PHARM 541 Pharmacy, Healthcare, and Society (3) SullivanIntroduction to health services and pharmacy practice designed for future healthcare practitioners. Examines the history, organization, and effectiveness of the U.S. healthcare system. Stresses the student's ability to adopt a broad perspective across healthcare disciplines and traditional boundaries.
Pharmacy^P-Managed Care Pharmacy: Principles and Practice P-Managed Care Pharmacy: Principles and Practice PHARM 542 P-Managed Care Pharmacy: Principles and Practice (3) Fullerton, PennaSurveys the activities, tactics, and strategies used by managed care to deliver pharmacy services to their members. Includes: formulary development, clinical improvement programs, quality improvement measures, regulatory activities, contracting with pharmaceutical manufacturers, network management, financial issues, sales and marketing, and provider relations. class 2, 3, and 4 PharmD students.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Laws and Ethics Pharmacy Laws and Ethics PHARM 543 Pharmacy Laws and Ethics ([2-3]-, max. 5) HazletStudies the laws governing the practice of pharmacy, approaches to legal, and ethical dilemmas in the delivery of pharmaceutical care, and methods of statutory and regulatory reform.
Pharmacy^Survey of Pharmacy Laws Survey of Pharmacy Laws PHARM 544 Survey of Pharmacy Laws (1) HazletPrepare, discuss, and present responses to assigned questions developed by faculty regarding laws governing pharmacy practice in the course of reviewing for the Multistate Pharmacy Jurisprudence Examination. Class meets for two consecutive Saturdays in February and March. Email and web access required. Open to fourth-year PharmD students; non-matriculated students by permission only.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics for Older Adults Pharmacotherapeutics for Older Adults PHARM 549 Pharmacotherapeutics for Older Adults (3-4) MurphyApplies pharmacologic knowledge to the assessment, individualized selection of therapy, and monitoring of treatment in older adults with multiple comorbidities; and age-related changes in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics with emphasis on problem solving, using case examples.
Pharmacy^Seminar in Geriatrics Seminar in Geriatrics PHARM 550 Seminar in Geriatrics ([0-1]-, max. 1) C. CATALANO, L. MIKEStudents facilitate a discussion with students/faculty about the management of an older adult with complex medication regimen encountered on their APPE. Students critically review and appraise primary literature relevant to contemporary issues related to geriatric pharmacotherapy.
Pharmacy^Practice-Based Leadership and Project Development Practice-Based Leadership and Project Development PHARM 552 Practice-Based Leadership and Project Development (2) J. Arnold, N. MurphyStrengthen skills necessary to develop, implement, and evaluate innovated programs that improve health, healthcare delivery, and the patient experience. In addition to actively participating in class discussions and group work, students are responsible for submitting weekly assignments, a final reflection paper, and a project proposal. Offered: W.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics II Pharmacotherapeutics II PHARM 557 Pharmacotherapeutics II (2)Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge towards the management of common disease. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples.
Pharmacy^P-Pharmacotherapeutics I - Pharmacotherapy with Non-prescription P-Pharmacotherapeutics I - Pharmacotherapy with Non-prescription PHARM 558 P-Pharmacotherapeutics I - Pharmacotherapy with Non-prescription (OTC) Drugs (3) EllsworthOverview of common classes of nonprescription drug therapeutics with an emphasis on case examples, patient assessment, non-drug adjunct therapy, product selection, and patient advice. Oral presentation required. Computer (Internet) case discussion mandatory. Enrollment restricted to first-year PharmD students.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics III Pharmacotherapeutics III PHARM 559 Pharmacotherapeutics III (4)Discusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge towards the management of common disease. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics III Pharmacotherapeutics III PHARM 560 Pharmacotherapeutics III (6) Bauer, HornDiscusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge toward the management of common diseases. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics IV Pharmacotherapeutics IV PHARM 561 Pharmacotherapeutics IV (7) Gray, MikeDiscusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge toward the management of common diseases. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples.
Pharmacy^Pharmacotherapeutics V Pharmacotherapeutics V PHARM 562 Pharmacotherapeutics V (6) Chan, McCuneDiscusses the integration of and applies epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical diagnostics, and drug-related knowledge toward the management of common diseases. Emphasizes problem-solving through the use of case examples.
Pharmacy^Applied Pharmacotherapeutics I Applied Pharmacotherapeutics I PHARM 563 Applied Pharmacotherapeutics I (2) C. CATALANO, L. MIKEDevelops a foundation of skills that enables a pharmacist to practice collaborative patient-specific care.
Pharmacy^Applied Pharmacotherapeutics II Applied Pharmacotherapeutics II PHARM 564 Applied Pharmacotherapeutics II (2) C. CATALANO, L. MIKEDevelops a foundation of skills that enables a pharmacist to practice collaborative patient specific care.
Pharmacy^Applied Pharmacotherapeutics III Applied Pharmacotherapeutics III PHARM 565 Applied Pharmacotherapeutics III (2) C. CATALANO, L. MIKEDevelops a foundation of skills that enables a pharmacist to practice collaborative patient-specific care.
Pharmacy^P-Applied Pharmacokinetics P-Applied Pharmacokinetics PHARM 566 P-Applied Pharmacokinetics (2) BauerPharmacokinetics of specific drugs. Influence of age, weight, sex, and disease states on patient-specific dosage regimens emphasized. Advanced kinetic concepts are discussed and put into applied context.
Pharmacy^P-Cancer Pharmacotherapeutics P-Cancer Pharmacotherapeutics PHARM 567 P-Cancer Pharmacotherapeutics (2) Gibson, Kwok, McQuary, VincentPharmacotherapy of cancer, covering supportive care therapeutics (antibiotics, antiemetics, analgesics,) to the antineoplastic agents. The pathophysiology, staging, and treatment of different cancers is discussed. Specialists from the different oncology practice areas serve as guest lecturers.
Pharmacy^Health Economics Health Economics PHARM 568 Health Economics (3/4) GarrisonApplies microeconomics principles and models to understand the nature of healthcare markets and systems. Includes a wide range of health sector activities and policy issues studied by applying rigorous economic analytical tools coupled with review of key econometric and empirical analysis.
Pharmacy^P-Fluid and Electrolytes and Parenteral Nutrition P-Fluid and Electrolytes and Parenteral Nutrition PHARM 569 P-Fluid and Electrolytes and Parenteral Nutrition (2) ChanFocuses on the principles of fluid electrolyte and nutritional management in patients requiring parenteral nutrition (PN) and infusion therapy. Topics include acid-base balance, macro- and micro-nutrient requirements, nutritional assessment, complications of PN and compounding and compatibility of PN solutions. Discusses consideration in special populations (e.g., ICU).
Pharmacy^P-Critical Care Pharmacotherapeutics P-Critical Care Pharmacotherapeutics PHARM 570 P-Critical Care Pharmacotherapeutics (2) MikeOverviews pharmacotherapeutic topics for patients in the critical care setting. Discusses principles in hemodynamic monitoring, respiratory management, concepts in pathophysiology related to critical illnesses, and other timely topics reflecting current clinical practice.
Pharmacy^P-Current Topics in Acute Care Pharmacotherapy P-Current Topics in Acute Care Pharmacotherapy PHARM 571 P-Current Topics in Acute Care Pharmacotherapy (1) ChanIncreases understanding and stimulates discussion in current topics related to acute care pharmacotherapy. Reviews the management of patients in the acute care setting through current cases presented by instructors. May be taken alone or concurrently with PHARM 570.
Pharmacy^Pharmacist Advocacy I: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs Pharmacist Advocacy I: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs PHARM 572 Pharmacist Advocacy I: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs (1) DowningIncreases student awareness and knowledge of local, state, and national healthcare issues that affect pharmacists and their patients. Prepares pharmacy students to knowledgably represent their school, profession, and their patients during individual and organized-group pharmacy legislative and other advocacy activities. Offered: A.
Pharmacy^Pharmacist Advocacy II: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs Pharmacist Advocacy II: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs PHARM 573 Pharmacist Advocacy II: Legislative and Grassroots Affairs (1) DowningPrepares pharmacy students to knowledgably represent their school, profession, and their patients during individual and organized-group pharmacy legislative and other advocacy activities. Students actively participate in off-campus legislative and advocacy activities while the Washington State legislature is in session. Offered: W.
Pharmacy^Current Topics in Pharmacy Current Topics in Pharmacy PHARM 579 Current Topics in Pharmacy (1, max. 3) Black, MurphyProvides a forum for discussing late-breaking topics that impact current and future pharmacy research and practice. Offered: AW.
Pharmacy^P-Global Health Pharmacy: Medicines, Practice, and Policy P-Global Health Pharmacy: Medicines, Practice, and Policy PHARM 581 P-Global Health Pharmacy: Medicines, Practice, and Policy (2) J. BABIGUMIRA, A. STERGACHISIntroduces the critical role of pharmaceutical in addressing major diseases (such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis) affecting persons in resource-limited settings. Addresses the wide range of relevant issues, including burden of disease, human resource capacity, regulation, drug safety/pharmacovigilance, drug distribution, pharmacoeconomics, financing, intellectual property, and drug trade policies.
Pharmacy^P-Special Topics in Global Health Pharmacy and Medical Products P-Special Topics in Global Health Pharmacy and Medical Products PHARM 582 P-Special Topics in Global Health Pharmacy and Medical Products ([1-3]-, max. 6) Babigurmira, GarrisonProvides in-depth instruction on selected special topics relating to the use, access to, and impact of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and diagnostics/medical devices in global health.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Practice I - Introduction to Community Pharmacy Practice I Pharmacy Practice I - Introduction to Community Pharmacy Practice I PHARM 584 Pharmacy Practice I - Introduction to Community Pharmacy Practice I (3) Allen, HammerIntroduction to development and practice of skills in drug information resources; prescription processing and problem solving; pharmaceutical calculations and compounding; patient information and counseling on over-the-counter and compounded medications. Offered: A.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Practice II Pharmacy Practice II PHARM 585 Pharmacy Practice II (3) Allen, HammerContinued development and practice of skills in drug information resources; prescription problem solving; pharmaceutical calculations; and patient information and counseling. Emphasizes use of commonly prescribed prescription medication as well as patient-specific characteristics that impact their care.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Practice III: Applications of Public Health Practice Pharmacy Practice III: Applications of Public Health Practice PHARM 586 Pharmacy Practice III: Applications of Public Health Practice (3) Catalano, HammerDevelops skills that enable public health screening and health promotion in community-based settings: administration of vaccines to adults and adolescents; practical application of community-based health screenings, counseling, and referral; and teaching self-monitoring techniques to patients. Emphasizes communication with members of special populations.
Pharmacy^Diabetes Prevention Diabetes Prevention PHARM 587 Diabetes Prevention (2) Danielson, McKennon, OdegardProvides students with knowledge/skills to serve as Diabetes Prevention lifestyle coaches. The knowledge/skills developed can be applied to promote health/wellness in the community.
Pharmacy^Diabetes Care Diabetes Care PHARM 588 Diabetes Care (2) Danielson, OdegardFurther develops foundations in the principles of diabetes management and provides practice in application of diabetes-care principles. Develops knowledge and abilty to assess, manage, educate, and monitor patients with diabetes.
Pharmacy^Community Collaborations in Healthcare Practicum Community Collaborations in Healthcare Practicum PHARM 591 Community Collaborations in Healthcare Practicum (2, max. 8) KedzierskiCollaboration with representatives from the Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center and other community sites to improve health literacy and health outcomes of men and women beneficiaries (residents) in addiction treatment and recovery.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Practice IV: Design and Analysis of Medical Studies Pharmacy Practice IV: Design and Analysis of Medical Studies PHARM 592 Pharmacy Practice IV: Design and Analysis of Medical Studies (3) DevineIntroduces the basic biostatistical concepts used in the medical literature, and the various study designs. Develops students' skills in critically evaluating the medical literature, with the goal of applying these skills to clinical practice.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Practice V: Institutional Pharmacy Practice Pharmacy Practice V: Institutional Pharmacy Practice PHARM 593 Pharmacy Practice V: Institutional Pharmacy Practice (3) SomaniIncludes discussion and skill development related to contemporary institutional pharmacy practice. Focuses on health information technology, the quality improvement process, MUE and cost management, medication order processing, counseling and medication reconciliation, interpersonal teamwork, and patient-oriented services. Students create and present mock proposals for new guidelines and practice protocols.
Pharmacy^Pharmacy Practice VI: Medication Quality and Safety Pharmacy Practice VI: Medication Quality and Safety PHARM 594 Pharmacy Practice VI: Medication Quality and Safety (2)Introduces topics related to medication safety and quality improvement. Describes the role of information technology and the importance of organizational leadership and teamwork in improving safety. Introduces topics of collaborative drug therapy management and managed care pharmacy practice.
Pharmacy^Special Studies in Pharmacy Special Studies in Pharmacy PHARM 595 Special Studies in Pharmacy (1-6, max. 24)Special studies of professional topics in pharmacy. An opportunity to expand the breadth and depth of understanding in specific pharmaceutical areas. Students may undertake independent study under the individual direction of a faculty member.
Pharmacy^Seminars in Pediatric Pharmacotherapy Seminars in Pediatric Pharmacotherapy PHARM 596 Seminars in Pediatric Pharmacotherapy (2) HarveyExplores therapeutic topics pertinent to the pediatric population. Emphasizes ambulatory pediatrics.
Pharmacy^Graduate Seminar Graduate Seminar PHARM 597 Graduate Seminar (1, max. 24)Interactive discussion of topical issues, methods, or analytic techniques. Topics vary.
Pharmacy^Independent Study/Research Independent Study/Research PHARM 599 Independent Study/Research (1-6, max. 24)Applied pharmaceutical research problems.
Aerospace Engineering^A Analytical Methods for Aerospace Engineering A Analytical Methods for Aerospace Engineering A E 501 Analytical Methods for Aerospace Engineering (4)Applications of analytical and mathematical methods for aerospace engineering, including: ordinary differential equations, partial differential equations, linear algebra, vector calculus, integral theorems, complex analysis, optimization, and probability.
Aerospace Engineering^A Linear Systems Theory A Linear Systems Theory A E 510 Linear Systems Theory (4)Covers theoretic methods for state-space linear systems including linearization of nonlinear systems, time-varying and time-invariant linear systems, discrete time and continuous time representations, canonical state space representations, linear system stability, time evolution of systems, controllability, and observability.
Aerospace Engineering^A Classical Control Theory A Classical Control Theory A E 511 Classical Control Theory (4)Covers theoretic methods for linear systems in the frequency domain including nonlinear and linear systems; linearization of nonlinear systems; stability, controllability, and observability of linear systems; linear system representations in frequency and time domains; dynamic system response in time and frequency domain; and frequency domain control design.
Aerospace Engineering^A Dynamics, Stability, and Control of Vehicles A Dynamics, Stability, and Control of Vehicles A E 512 Dynamics, Stability, and Control of Vehicles (4)Covers stability derivatives; effects of stability derivatives on flight characteristics; dynamics of rigid bodies in air, space and underwater applications; responses to control inputs and external disturbances; handing qualities; control system components; sensor characteristics; stability augmentation systems; guidance and navigation; human factors; effects of limited communication; and multivehicle systems.
Aerospace Engineering^A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Controls A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Controls A E 519 Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Controls (4, max. 8)Current research and advanced special topics in the area of aerospace engineering - controls.
Aerospace Engineering^A Fundamentals of Fluid Dynamics A Fundamentals of Fluid Dynamics A E 520 Fundamentals of Fluid Dynamics (4)Flow kinematics and dynamics, inviscid and viscous flows, incompressible and compressible flows, shock-waves, boundary layers, vorticity, and turbulence.
Aerospace Engineering^A Aircraft Noise A Aircraft Noise A E 523 Aircraft Noise (4)Covers noise characterization; federal aircraft noise regulation; interrelationship between the engine types and noise; aircraft noise generation, propagation, and radiation; noise measurements; and methods for noise reduction.
Aerospace Engineering^A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Fluids A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Fluids A E 529 Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Fluids (4, max. 8)Current research and advanced topics in the area of aerospace engineering - fluids.
Aerospace Engineering^A Rocket Propulsion A Rocket Propulsion A E 532 Rocket Propulsion (4)Covers rocket propulsion (nozzle gas dynamics, non-ideal flow effects); rocket vehicle performance; chemical rockets (solid, liquid propulsion, components and design); physical; and performance characteristics of rockets; and mission requirements; Introduction to electric thrusters.
Aerospace Engineering^A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Propulsion, Plasma, and Power A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Propulsion, Plasma, and Power A E 539 Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Propulsion, Plasma, and Power (4, max. 8)Current research and advanced special topics in the area of aerospace engineering - propulsion/plasma/power.
Aerospace Engineering^A Mechanics of Solids A Mechanics of Solids A E 540 Mechanics of Solids (4)Covers general concepts, theory, and application of solid mechanics; mechanical behavior of elastic, plastic and viscoelastic solids; fracture of aerospace structural materials.
Aerospace Engineering^A Finite Element Analysis A Finite Element Analysis A E 541 Finite Element Analysis (4)Covers theory and application of the finite element methods; element types, stiffness matrix and solution procedures; and solution of elasticity, thermal conduction, and other practical problems in aerospace engineering.
Aerospace Engineering^A Fatigue and Fracture in Aerospace Structures A Fatigue and Fracture in Aerospace Structures A E 542 Fatigue and Fracture in Aerospace Structures (4)Covers theory of failure for metallic aerospace structures; fatigue properties, fatigue load spectrum, fatigue crack propagation, fracture mechanics, damage tolerance, fretting and corrosion fatigue, design applications, and case studies.
Aerospace Engineering^A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Structures A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Structures A E 549 Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Structures (4, max. 8)Current research and advanced special topics in the area of aerospace engineering - structures.
Aerospace Engineering^A Mechanics of Composite Materials A Mechanics of Composite Materials A E 550 Mechanics of Composite Materials (4)Covers the analysis and design of advanced composite materials for aerospace structures including material properties, micromechanics, anisotropic elasticity, theory of laminated plates, bending and buckling, and fracture of composites.
Aerospace Engineering^A Advanced Composite Structural Analysis A Advanced Composite Structural Analysis A E 553 Advanced Composite Structural Analysis (4)Covers advanced stress analysis methods of composite structures made of beams, laminates, sandwich plates, and thin shells; stress and buckling analyses of solid and thin-walled composite beams; shear deformable theory for bending of thick laminated plates; and stress and fracture mechanics analysis of bonded joints.
Aerospace Engineering^A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Composites A Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Composites A E 559 Special Topics in Aerospace Engineering: Composites (4, max. 8)Current research and advanced special topics in the area of aerospace engineering - composites.
Aerospace Engineering^A Aerospace Engineering Colloquium A Aerospace Engineering Colloquium A E 598 Aerospace Engineering Colloquium (1, max. 30)Covers the latest research in aerospace engineering. Includes current trends in professional aerospace engineering (e.g., manufacturing, systems, etc.) and professional development for aerospace engineers (e.g., project management, job searches, etc.). Lectures and discussions led by guest speakers. Offered: AWSp.
Computer Science^Computer Science Principles Computer Science Principles CSE 120 Computer Science Principles (5) NW, QSRIntroduces fundamental concepts of computer science and computational thinking. Includes logical reasoning, problem solving, data representation, abstraction, the creation of digital artifacts such as web pages and programs, managing complexity, operation of computers and networks, effective web searching, ethical, legal and social aspects of information technology. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in CSE 100/INFO 100.
Computer Science^Science and Art of Digital Photography Science and Art of Digital Photography CSE 131 Science and Art of Digital Photography (4) VLPA HemingwayCovers the fundamentals of digital photography, including computational imaging; the elements of photographic composition and design; and the future of internet-enabled photography.
Computer Science^Computer Programming I Computer Programming I CSE 142 Computer Programming I (4) NW, QSRBasic programming-in-the-small abilities and concepts including procedural programming (methods, parameters, return, values), basic control structures (sequence, if/else, for loop, while loop), file processing, arrays, and an introduction to defining objects. Intended for students without prior programming experience. Offered: AWSpS.
Computer Science^Computer Programming II Computer Programming II CSE 143 Computer Programming II (5) NW, QSRContinuation of CSE 142. Concepts of data abstraction and encapsulation including stacks, queues, linked lists, binary trees, recursion, instruction to complexity and use of predefined collection classes.
Computer Science^Web Programming Web Programming CSE 154 Web Programming (5) QSRCovers languages, tools, and techniques for developing interactive and dynamic web pages. Topics include page styling, design, and layout; client and server side scripting; web security; and interacting with data sources such as databases.
Computer Science^Data Programming Data Programming CSE 160 Data Programming (4) NW, QSRIntroduction to computer programming. Assignments solve real data manipulation tasks from science, engineering, business, and the humanities. Concepts of computational thinking, problem-solving, data analysis, Python programming, control and data abstraction, file processing, and data visualization. Intended for students without prior programming experience. No credit if CSE 143 has been taken.
Computer Science^Current Topics in Computer Science and Engineering Current Topics in Computer Science and Engineering CSE 190 Current Topics in Computer Science and Engineering (1-5, max. 15)
Computer Science^Foundations of Computing I Foundations of Computing I CSE 311 Foundations of Computing I (4) QSRExamines fundamentals of logic, set theory, induction, and algebraic structures with applications to computing; finite state machines; and limits of computability.
Computer Science^Foundations of Computing II Foundations of Computing II CSE 312 Foundations of Computing II (4) QSRExamines fundamentals of enumeration and discrete probability; applications of randomness to computing; polynomial-time versus NP; and NP-completeness.
Computer Science^Software Design and Implementation Software Design and Implementation CSE 331 Software Design and Implementation (4)Explores concepts and techniques for design and construction of reliable and maintainable software systems in modern high-level languages; program structure and design; program-correctness approaches, including testing; and event-driven programming (e.g., graphical user interface). Includes substantial project and software-team experience.
Computer Science^Data Abstractions Data Abstractions CSE 332 Data Abstractions (4)Covers abstract data types and structures including dictionaries, balanced trees, hash tables, priority queues, and graphs; sorting; asymptotic analysis; fundamental graph algorithms including graph search, shortest path, and minimum spanning trees; concurrency and synchronization; and parallelism. Not available for credit for students who have completed CSE 373.
Computer Science^Systems Programming Systems Programming CSE 333 Systems Programming (4)Includes substantial programming experience in languages that expose machine characteristics and low-level data representation (e.g., C and C++); explicit memory management; interacting with operating-system services; and cache-aware programming.
Computer Science^Programming Languages Programming Languages CSE 341 Programming Languages (4)Basic concepts of programming languages, including abstraction mechanisms, types, and scoping. Detailed study of several different programming paradigms, such as functional, object-oriented, and logic programming. No credit if CSE 413 has been taken.
Computer Science^Introduction to Data Management Introduction to Data Management CSE 344 Introduction to Data Management (4)Introduces database management systems and writing applications that use such systems; data models (e.g., relational, semi-structured), query languages (e.g., SQL, XQuery), language bindings, conceptual modeling, transactions, security, database tuning, data warehousing, parallelism, and web-data management.
Computer Science^The Hardware/Software Interface The Hardware/Software Interface CSE 351 The Hardware/Software Interface (4)Examines key computational abstraction levels below modern high-level languages; number representation, assembly language, introduction to C, memory management, the operating-system process model, high-level machine architecture including the memory hierarchy, and how high-level languages are implemented.
Computer Science^Hardware Design and Implementation Hardware Design and Implementation CSE 352 Hardware Design and Implementation (4)Covers digital circuit design, processor design, and systems integration and embedded-systems issues. Includes substantial hardware laboratory.
Computer Science^Data Structures and Algorithms Data Structures and Algorithms CSE 373 Data Structures and Algorithms (3)Fundamental algorithms and data structures for implementation. Techniques for solving problems by programming. Linked lists, stacks, queues, directed graphs. Trees: representations, traversals. Searching (hashing, binary search trees, multiway trees). Garbage collection, memory management. Internal and external sorting. Intended for non-majors. Not open for credit to students who have completed CSE 332.
Computer Science^Intermediate Programming Concepts and Tools Intermediate Programming Concepts and Tools CSE 374 Intermediate Programming Concepts and Tools (3)Covers key software development concepts and tools not in introductory courses. Concepts of lower-level programming (C/C++) and explicit memory management; techniques and tools for individual and group software development; design, implementation, and testing strategies. Intended for non-majors. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for CSE 333.
Computer Science^Special Topics in Computer Science and Engineering Special Topics in Computer Science and Engineering CSE 390 Special Topics in Computer Science and Engineering (1-5, max. 10)Covers topics of current interest in computer science and engineering.
Computer Science^CSE Foreign Study CSE Foreign Study CSE 399 CSE Foreign Study (*)Upper-division computer science or computer engineering course, taken through an approved study abroad program, for which there is no direct University of Washington equivalent.
Computer Science^Introduction to Compiler Construction Introduction to Compiler Construction CSE 401 Introduction to Compiler Construction (4)Fundamentals of compilers and interpreters; symbol tables; lexical analysis, syntax analysis, semantic analysis, code generation, and optimizations for general purpose programming languages. No credit to students who have taken CSE 413.
Computer Science^Software Engineering Software Engineering CSE 403 Software Engineering (4)Fundamentals of software engineering using a group project as the basic vehicle. Topics covered include the software crisis, managing complexity, requirements specification, architectural and detailed design, testing and analysis, software process, and tools and environments.
Computer Science^Computer Systems Computer Systems CSE 410 Computer Systems (3)Structure and components of hardware and software systems. Machine organization, including central processor and input-output architectures; assembly language programming; operating systems, including process, storage, and file management. Intended for non-majors. No credit to students who have completed CSE 351 or CSE 451.
Computer Science^Programming Languages and Their Implementation Programming Languages and Their Implementation CSE 413 Programming Languages and Their Implementation (3)Basic concepts and implementation strategies for modern functional and object-oriented programming languages such as Scheme and Java. Intended for non-majors. No credit to students who have completed CSE 341 or CSE 401.
Computer Science^Introduction to Database Systems Introduction to Database Systems CSE 414 Introduction to Database Systems (4)Introduces database management systems and writing applications that use such systems; data models, query languages, transactions, database tuning, data warehousing, and parallelism. Intended for non-majors. Not open for credit to students who have completed CSE 344.
Computer Science^Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Introduction to Artificial Intelligence CSE 415 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (3) NWPrinciples and programming techniques of artificial intelligence: LISP, symbol manipulation, knowledge representation, logical and probabilistic reasoning, learning, language understanding, vision, expert systems, and social issues. Intended for non-majors. Not open for credit to students who have completed CSE 473.
Computer Science^Algorithms and Computational Complexity Algorithms and Computational Complexity CSE 417 Algorithms and Computational Complexity (3)Design and analysis of algorithms and data structures. Efficient algorithms for manipulating graphs and strings. Fast Fourier Transform. Models of computation, including Turing machines. Time and space complexity. NP-complete problems and undecidable problems. Intended for non-majors.
Computer Science^Introduction to Algorithms Introduction to Algorithms CSE 421 Introduction to Algorithms (3)Techniques for design of efficient algorithms. Methods for showing lower bounds on computational complexity. Particular algorithms for sorting, searching, set manipulation, arithmetic, graph problems, pattern matching.
Computer Science^Computational Biology Computational Biology CSE 427 Computational Biology (3)Algorithmic and analytic techniques underlying analysis of large-scale biological data sets such as DNA, RNA, and protein sequences or structures, expression and proteomic profiling. Hands-on experience with databases, analysis tools, and genome markers. Applications such as sequence alignment, BLAST, phylogenetics, and Markov models.
Computer Science^Computational Biology Capstone Computational Biology Capstone CSE 428 Computational Biology Capstone (5)Designs and implements a software tool or software analysis for an important problem in computational molecular biology.
Computer Science^Introduction to Theory of Computation Introduction to Theory of Computation CSE 431 Introduction to Theory of Computation (3)Models of computation, computable and noncomputable functions, space and time complexity, tractable and intractable functions.
Computer Science^Introduction to HCI: User Interface Design, Prototyping, and Evaluation Introduction to HCI: User Interface Design, Prototyping, and Evaluation CSE 440 Introduction to HCI: User Interface Design, Prototyping, and Evaluation (5)Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) theory and techniques. Methods for designing, prototyping, and evaluating user interfaces to computing applications. Human capabilities, interface technology, interface design methods, and interface evaluation tools and techniques.
Computer Science^Advanced HCI: Advanced User Interface Design, Prototyping, and Evaluation Advanced HCI: Advanced User Interface Design, Prototyping, and Evaluation CSE 441 Advanced HCI: Advanced User Interface Design, Prototyping, and Evaluation (5)Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) theory and techniques. Advanced methods for designing, prototyping, and evaluating user interfaces to computing applications. Novel interface technology, advanced interface design methods, and prototyping tools.
Computer Science^Database Systems Internals Database Systems Internals CSE 444 Database Systems Internals (4)The relational data model and the SQL query language. Conceptual modeling: entity/relationships, normal forms. XML, XPath, and XQuery. Transactions: recovery and concurrency control. Implementation of a database system. A medium sized project using a rational database backend.
Computer Science^Machine Learning Machine Learning CSE 446 Machine Learning (4)Methods for designing systems that learn from data and improve with experience. Supervised learning and predictive modeling: decision trees, rule induction, nearest neighbors, Bayesian methods, neural networks, support vector machines, and model ensembles. Unsupervised learning and clustering.
Computer Science^Animation Production Seminar Animation Production Seminar CSE 450 Animation Production Seminar (1)Open to all students who have an interest in digital animation. Reviews and analyzes films, animated feature films, and television commercials. Emphasizes the technical and aesthetic basics of animation production in industry studio environments.
Computer Science^Introduction to Operating Systems Introduction to Operating Systems CSE 451 Introduction to Operating Systems (4)Principles of operating systems. Process management, memory management, auxiliary storage management, resource allocation. No credit to students who have completed CSE 410 or E E 474.
Computer Science^Introduction to Distributed Systems Introduction to Distributed Systems CSE 452 Introduction to Distributed Systems (4)Covers abstractions and implementation techniques in the construction of distributed systems, including cloud computing, distributed storage systems, and distributed caches.
Computer Science^Advanced Internet and Web Services Advanced Internet and Web Services CSE 454 Advanced Internet and Web Services (5)Design of Internet search engines, including spider architecture, inverted indices, frequency rankings, latent semantic indexing, hyperlink analysis, and refinement interfaces. Construction of scalable and secure web services. Datamining webserver logs to provide personalized and user-targeted services. Large project.
Computer Science^Computer Vision Computer Vision CSE 455 Computer Vision (4)Introduction to image analysis and interpreting the 3D world from image data. Topics may include segmentation, motion estimation, image mosaics, 3D-shape reconstruction, object recognition, and image retrieval.
Computer Science^Story Design for Computer Animation Story Design for Computer Animation CSE 456 Story Design for Computer Animation (4)Animation principles and production for story development and design. Design, development, and production of several storyreels, which are a tool for the pre-production of animated features and shorts. Student use authoring tools to present finished work.
Computer Science^Computer Graphics Computer Graphics CSE 457 Computer Graphics (4)Introduction to computer image synthesis, modeling, and animation. Topics may include visual perception, displays and framebuffers, image processing, affine and projective transformations, hierarchical modeling, hidden surface elimination, shading, ray-tracing, anti-aliasing, texture mapping, curves, surfaces, particle systems, dynamics, character animation, and animation principles.
Computer Science^Computer Animation Computer Animation CSE 458 Computer Animation (5)Introduction to basic principles of computer generated animation. Focus on the modeling and lighting of animated characters. Students from art, CSE, and music team up on projects to be built on commercially-available modeling and lighting packages.
Computer Science^Pre-Production for Collaborative Animation Pre-Production for Collaborative Animation CSE 459 Pre-Production for Collaborative Animation (5)Pre-production of collaboratively designed animated shorts. In-depth analysis of classical and computer generated works. Character design and pre-planning, model sheets, character rigging, storyreel and animatics, character motion, design for multiple characters, and principles of animation as applied to character motion and effects.
Computer Science^Animation Capstone Animation Capstone CSE 460 Animation Capstone (5)Apply the knowledge gained in previous animation courses to produce a short animated film. Topics include scene planning, digital cinematography, creature and hard surface modeling, animatics and basics of character animation, and rendering techniques.
Computer Science^Introduction to Computer-Communication Networks Introduction to Computer-Communication Networks CSE 461 Introduction to Computer-Communication Networks (4)Computer network architectures, protocol layers, network programming. Transmission media, encoding systems, switching, multiple access arbitration. Network routing, congestion control, flow control. Transport protocols, real-time, multicast, network security.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Digital Animation Advanced Topics in Digital Animation CSE 464 Advanced Topics in Digital Animation (1-5, max. 10)Students design individual animated works for professional quality demo reels. 2- and 3-D animatics, special effects design, advanced character animation techniques, 3-D paint techniques and integration, short design, sequence planning, non-photorealistic rendering options, interactive animation for pre-planning, and advanced production techniques and strategies.
Computer Science^Software for Embedded Systems Software for Embedded Systems CSE 466 Software for Embedded Systems (4)Software issues in the design of embedded systems. Microcontroller architectures and peripherals, embedded operating systems and device drivers, compilers and debuggers, timer and interrupt systems, interfacing of devices, communications and networking. Emphasis on practical application of development platforms.
Computer Science^Advanced Digital Design Advanced Digital Design CSE 467 Advanced Digital Design (4)Advanced techniques in the design of digital systems. Hardware description languages, combinational and sequential logic synthesis and optimization methods, partitioning, mapping to regular structures. Emphasis on reconfigurable logic as an implementation medium. Memory system design. Digital communication including serial/parallel and synchronous/asynchronous methods.
Computer Science^Computer Design and Organization Computer Design and Organization CSE 471 Computer Design and Organization (4)CPU instruction addressing models, CPU structure and functions, computer arithmetic and logic unit, register transfer level design, hardware and microprogram control, memory hierarchy design and organization, I/O and system components interconnection. Laboratory project involves design and simulation of an instruction set processor.
Computer Science^Introduction to Computational Linguistics Introduction to Computational Linguistics CSE 472 Introduction to Computational Linguistics (5) VLPA/NW E. BENDERIntroduction to computational approaches to modeling language, for linguistic research and practical applications, including analyses at different levels of linguistic structure and symbolic as well as statistical approaches.
Computer Science^Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Introduction to Artificial Intelligence CSE 473 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (3)Principal ideas and developments in artificial intelligence: Problem solving and search, game playing, knowledge representation and reasoning, uncertainty, machine learning, natural language processing. Not open for credit to students who have completed CSE 415.
Computer Science^Digital System Design Digital System Design CSE 477 Digital System Design (5)Capstone design experience. Prototype a substantial project mixing hardware, software, and communication components. Focuses on use of embedded processors and programmable logic in digital system design, case studies, and emerging components and platforms. Provides a complete experience in embedded system design and management.
Computer Science^Capstone Software Design Capstone Software Design CSE 481 Capstone Software Design (5, max. 15)Students work in teams to design and implement a software project involving multiple areas of the CSE curriculum. Emphasis is placed on the development process itself, rather than on the product.
Computer Science^Computer Security Computer Security CSE 484 Computer Security (4)Foundations of modern computer security, including software security, operating system security, network security, applied cryptography, human factors, authentication, anonymity, and web security.
Computer Science^Introduction to Synthetic Biology Introduction to Synthetic Biology CSE 486 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3)Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods.
Computer Science^Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology CSE 487 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3)Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology.
Computer Science^Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology CSE 488 Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology (4)Designs and builds transgenic bacterial using promoters and genes taken from a variety of organisms. Uses construction techniques including recombination, gene synthesis, and gene extraction. Evaluates designs using sequencing, fluorescence assays, enzyme activity assays, and single cell studies using time-lapse microscopy.
Computer Science^Special Topics in Computer Science and Engineering Special Topics in Computer Science and Engineering CSE 490 Special Topics in Computer Science and Engineering (1-5, max. 15)Lectures, discussions, and possibly labs on topics of current interest in computer science and engineering not covered by other CSE undergraduate courses.
Computer Science^Project Practicum Project Practicum CSE 495 Project Practicum ([1-5]-, max. 5)Available in special situations for computer science majors to compete, under instructor guidance, a substantial computing project that deepens one's knowledge and experience in the field. Projects may involve a group of students.
Computer Science^Undergraduate Research Seminar Undergraduate Research Seminar CSE 497 Undergraduate Research Seminar (1)Students prepare and give a public talk on their faculty-sponsored research projects.
Computer Science^Senior Project Senior Project CSE 498 Senior Project ([1-9]-, max. 9)A report (and perhaps demonstration) describing a development, survey, or small research project in computer science or an application to another field. Objectives: (1) integrating material from several courses, (2) introducing the professional literature, (3) gaining experience in writing a technical document, and (4) showing evidence of independent work. Work normally extends over more than one quarter, for a maximum of 6 credits for CSE 498; 9 credits are required for CSE 498H.
Computer Science^Reading and Research Reading and Research CSE 499 Reading and Research (1-24, max. 24)Available in special situations for advanced computer science majors to do reading and research in field, subject to approval of undergraduate adviser and CSE faculty member. Free elective, but does not replace core course or computer science elective.
Computer Science^Programming Language Analysis and Implementation Programming Language Analysis and Implementation CSE 501 Programming Language Analysis and Implementation (4)Design and implementation of compilers and run-time systems for imperative, object-oriented, and functional languages. Intra- and interprocedural analyses and optimizations.
Computer Science^Software Engineering Software Engineering CSE 503 Software Engineering (4)Specification, implementation, and testing of large, multiperson, software systems. Topics include abstraction, information hiding, software development environments, and formal specifications.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Software Engineering Advanced Topics in Software Engineering CSE 504 Advanced Topics in Software Engineering (4)Topics vary but may include software design and evolution, formal methods, requirements specifications, software and system safety, reverse engineering, real-time software, metrics and measurement, programming environments, and verification and validation.
Computer Science^Principles of Programming Languages Principles of Programming Languages CSE 505 Principles of Programming Languages (4)Design and formal semantics of modern programming languages, includes functional and object-oriented languages.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Programming Languages Advanced Topics in Programming Languages CSE 506 Advanced Topics in Programming Languages (4)May include functional, object-oriented, parallel, and logic programming languages; semantics for languages of these kinds; type declaration, inference, and checking (including polymorphic types); implementation issues, such as compilation, lazy evaluation, combinators, parallelism, various optimization techniques. Implementation project required.
Computer Science^Computer-Aided Reasoning for Software Computer-Aided Reasoning for Software CSE 507 Computer-Aided Reasoning for Software (4)Covers theory, implementation, and applications of automated reasoning techniques, such as satisfiability solving, theorem proving, model checking, and abstract interpretation. Topics include concepts from mathematical logic and applications of automated reasoning to the design, construction, and analysis of software.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Human-Computer Interaction Advanced Topics in Human-Computer Interaction CSE 510 Advanced Topics in Human-Computer Interaction (4)Content varies, including interface issues for networks, embedded systems, education applications, safety and critical systems, graphics and virtual reality, databases, and computer-supported cooperative work.
Computer Science^Data Visualization Data Visualization CSE 512 Data Visualization (4)Covers techniques and algorithms for creating effective visualizations based on principles from graphic design, visual art, perceptual psychology, and cognitive science. Topics include data and image models; visual encoding; graphical perception; color; animation; interaction techniques; graph layout; and automated design. Lectures, reading, and project.
Computer Science^Statistical Methods in Computer Science Statistical Methods in Computer Science CSE 515 Statistical Methods in Computer Science (4)Introduction to the probabilistic and statistical techniques used in modern computer systems. Graphical models, probabilistic inference, statistical learning, sequential models, decision theory.
Computer Science^Natural Language Processing Natural Language Processing CSE 517 Natural Language Processing (4)Overview of modern approaches for natural language processing. Topics include language models, text, classification, tagging, parsing, machine translation, semantic, and discourse analysis.
Computer Science^Current Research in Computer Science Current Research in Computer Science CSE 519 Current Research in Computer Science (1, max. 18)Weekly presentations on current research activities by members of the department. Only computer science graduate students may register, although others are encouraged to attend.
Computer Science^Computer Science Colloquium Computer Science Colloquium CSE 520 Computer Science Colloquium (1, max. 18)Weekly public presentations on topics of current interest by visiting computer scientists.
Computer Science^Design and Analysis of Algorithms I Design and Analysis of Algorithms I CSE 521 Design and Analysis of Algorithms I (4)Principles of design of efficient algorithms: recursion, divide and conquer, balancing, dynamic programming, greedy method, network flow, linear programming. Correctness and analysis of algorithms. NP-completeness.
Computer Science^Design and Analysis of Algorithms II Design and Analysis of Algorithms II CSE 522 Design and Analysis of Algorithms II (4)Analysis of algorithms more sophisticated than those treated in CSE 521. Content varies and may include such topics as algebraic algorithms, combinational algorithms, techniques for proving lower bounds on complexity, and algorithms for special computing devices such as networks or formulas.
Computer Science^Computational Geometry Computational Geometry CSE 523 Computational Geometry (4)Algorithms for discrete computational geometry. Geometric computation, range searching, convex hulls, proximity, Vornoi diagrams, intersection. Application areas include VLSI design and computer graphics.
Computer Science^Parallel Algorithms Parallel Algorithms CSE 524 Parallel Algorithms (4)Design and analysis of parallel algorithms: fundamental parallel algorithms for sorting, arithmetic, matrix and graph problems, and additional selected topics. Emphasis on general techniques and approaches used for developing fast and efficient parallel algorithms and on limitations to their efficacy.
Computer Science^Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis CSE 525 Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis (4)Examines algorithmic techniques: random selection, random sampling, backwards analysis, algebraic methods, Monte Carlo methods, and randomized rounding; random graphs; the probabilistic method; Markov chains and random walks; and analysis tools: random variables, moments and deviations, Chernoff bounds, martingales, and balls in bins.
Computer Science^Computational Biology Computational Biology CSE 527 Computational Biology (4)Introduces computational methods for understanding biological systems at the molecular level. Problem areas such as mapping and sequencing, sequence analysis, structure prediction, phylogenic inference, regulatory analysis. Techniques such as dynamic programming, Markov models, expectation-maximization, local search.
Computer Science^Computational Neuroscience Computational Neuroscience CSE 528 Computational Neuroscience (3)Introduction to computational methods for understanding nervous systems and the principles governing their operation. Topics include representation of information by spiking neurons, information processing in neural circuits, and algorithms for adaptation and learning.
Computer Science^Neural Control of Movement: A Computational Perspective Neural Control of Movement: A Computational Perspective CSE 529 Neural Control of Movement: A Computational Perspective (3)Systematic overview of sensorimotor function on multiple levels of analysis, with emphasis on the phenomenology amenable to computational modeling. Topics include musculoskeletal mechanics, neural networks, optimal control and Bayesian inference, learning and adaptation, internal models, and neural coding and decoding.
Computer Science^Computational Complexity I Computational Complexity I CSE 531 Computational Complexity I (4)Deterministic and nondeterministic time and space complexity, complexity classes, and complete problems. Time and space hierarchies. Alternation and the polynomial-time hierarchy. Circuit complexity. Probabilistic computation. Exponential complexity lower bounds. Interactive proofs.
Computer Science^Computational Complexity II Computational Complexity II CSE 532 Computational Complexity II (4)Advanced computational complexity including several of the following: circuit complexity lower bounds, #p and counting classes, probabilistically-checkable proofs, de-randomization, logical characteristics of complexity, communication complexity, time-space tradeoffs, complexity of data structures.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Complexity Theory Advanced Topics in Complexity Theory CSE 533 Advanced Topics in Complexity Theory (4)An in-depth study of advanced topics in computational complexity.
Computer Science^Principles of Database Systems Principles of Database Systems CSE 544 Principles of Database Systems (4)Data models and query languages (SQL, datalog, OQL). Relational databases, enforcement of integrity constraints. Object-oriented databases and object-relational databases. Principles of data storage and indexing. Query-execution methods and query optimization algorithms. Static analysis of queries and rewriting of queries using views. Data integration. Data mining. Principles of transaction processing.
Computer Science^Machine Learning Machine Learning CSE 546 Machine Learning (4)Explores methods for designing systems that learn from data and improve with experience. Supervised learning and predictive modeling; decision trees, rule induction, nearest neighbors, Bayesian methods, neural networks, support vector machines, and model ensembles. Unsupervised learning and clustering.
Computer Science^Machine Learning for Big Data Machine Learning for Big Data CSE 547 Machine Learning for Big Data (4) Fox, GuestrinCovers machine learning and statistical techniques for analyzing datasets of massive size and dimensionality. Representations include regularized linear models, graphical models, matrix factorization, sparsity, clustering, and latent factor models. Algorithms include sketching, random projections, hashing, fast nearest-neighbors, large-scale online learning, and parallel learning (Map-Reduce, GraphLab).
Computer Science^Computer Systems Architecture Computer Systems Architecture CSE 548 Computer Systems Architecture (4)Notations for computer systems. Processor design (single chip, look-ahead, pipelined, data flow). Memory hierarchy organization and management (virtual memory and caches). Microprogramming. I/O processing. Multiprocessors (SIMD and MIMD).
Computer Science^High-Performance Computer Architectures High-Performance Computer Architectures CSE 549 High-Performance Computer Architectures (4)Algorithm design, software techniques, computer organizations for high-performance computing systems. Selected topics from: VLSI complexity for parallel algorithms, compiling techniques for parallel and vector machines, large MIMD machines, interconnection networks, reconfigurable systems, memory hierarchies in multiprocessors, algorithmically specialized processors, data flow architectures.
Computer Science^Computer Systems Computer Systems CSE 550 Computer Systems (4)Explores computer system design, implementation, and evaluation. Covers principles, techniques, and examples related to the construction of computer systems, including concepts that span network systems, operating systems, web servers, parallel computing, and databases.
Computer Science^Operating Systems Operating Systems CSE 551 Operating Systems (4)Operating system design and construction techniques. Concurrent programming, operating system kernels, correctness, deadlock, protection, transaction processing, design methodologies, comparative structure of different kinds of operating systems, and other topics.
Computer Science^Distributed and Parallel Systems Distributed and Parallel Systems CSE 552 Distributed and Parallel Systems (4)Principles, techniques, and examples related to the design, implementation, and analysis of distributed and parallel computer systems.
Computer Science^Real-Time Systems Real-Time Systems CSE 553 Real-Time Systems (4)Design and construction of software for real-time computer systems. Software architectures. Requirements and specification methods. Scheduling algorithms and timing analysis. Real-time operating systems. Real-time programming languages. Selected case studies.
Computer Science^Computer Graphics Computer Graphics CSE 557 Computer Graphics (4)Introduction to image synthesis and computer modeling, emphasizing the underlying theory required for undertaking computer graphics research. Topics include color theory, image processing, affine and projective geometry, hidden-surface determination, photorealistic image synthesis, advanced curve and surface design, dynamics, realistic character animation.
Computer Science^Special Topics in Computer Graphics Special Topics in Computer Graphics CSE 558 Special Topics in Computer Graphics (4)Advanced topics in computer graphics not treated in CSE 557. Topics vary from year to year but typically include advanced aspects of image synthesis, animation, and 3D photography.
Computer Science^Computer Communication and Networks Computer Communication and Networks CSE 561 Computer Communication and Networks (4)Fundamentals of data transmission: coding, message formats, and protocols. Organization of computer networks. Examples of network implementations.
Computer Science^Computer Security and Privacy Computer Security and Privacy CSE 564 Computer Security and Privacy (4)Examines the fundamentals of computer security including: human factors; attack detection, measurements, and models; cryptography and communications security; system design and implementation; and side channels.
Computer Science^Principles of Digital Systems Design Principles of Digital Systems Design CSE 567 Principles of Digital Systems Design (4)Principles of logic design, combinational and sequential circuits, minimization techniques, structured design methods, CMOS technology, complementary and ratioed gates, delay estimation and performance analysis, arithmetic circuits, memories, clocking methodologies, synthesis and simulation tools, VLSI processor architecture.
Computer Science^Introduction to VLSI Systems Introduction to VLSI Systems CSE 568 Introduction to VLSI Systems (4)Introduction to CMOS technology and circuit design; combinational logic-design alternatives; register-design and system-clocking methodologies; datapath and subsystem design; VLSI system-design methodologies; CAD tools for synthesis, layout, simulation, and validation; design of a complex VLSI chip.
Computer Science^AI-based Mobile Robotics AI-based Mobile Robotics CSE 571 AI-based Mobile Robotics (4)Overview of mobile robot control and sensing. Behavior-based control, world modeling, localization, navigation, and planning Probabilistic sensor interpretation, Bayers filters, particle filters. Projects: Program real robots to perform navigation tasks.
Computer Science^Artificial Intelligence I Artificial Intelligence I CSE 573 Artificial Intelligence I (4)Intensive introduction to artificial intelligence: Problem solving and search, game playing, knowledge representation and reasoning, uncertainty, machine learning, natural language processing.
Computer Science^Artificial Intelligence II Artificial Intelligence II CSE 574 Artificial Intelligence II (4)Advanced topics in artificial intelligence. Subjects include planning, natural language understanding, qualitative physics, machine learning, and formal models of time and action. Students are required to do projects.
Computer Science^Computer Vision Computer Vision CSE 576 Computer Vision (3)Principles and methods for interpreting the three-dimensional world from images. Topics include feature detection, image segmentation, motion estimation, image mosaics, 3D-shape reconstruction, object recognition, and image retrieval.
Computer Science^Special Topics in Computer Vision Special Topics in Computer Vision CSE 577 Special Topics in Computer Vision (3)Topics vary and may include vision for graphics, probabilistic vision and learning, medical imaging, content-based image and video retrieval, robot vision, or 3D object recognition.
Computer Science^Intelligent Control through Learning and Optimization Intelligent Control through Learning and Optimization CSE 579 Intelligent Control through Learning and Optimization (3)Design or near-optimal controllers for complex dynamical systems, using analytical techniques, machine learning, and optimization. Topics from deterministic and stochastic optimal control, reinforcement learning and dynamic programming, numerical optimization in the context of control, and robotics.
Computer Science^Introduction to Synthetic Biology Introduction to Synthetic Biology CSE 586 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3)Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods.
Computer Science^Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology CSE 587 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3)Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology.
Computer Science^Research Seminar Research Seminar CSE 590 Research Seminar (*, max. 50)Several offerings each quarter, on topics of current interest.
Computer Science^Group Projects in Computer Science Group Projects in Computer Science CSE 591 Group Projects in Computer Science (1-3, max. 25)Focuses on specialized topics and research activities in computer science.
Computer Science^Special Topics in Computer Science Special Topics in Computer Science CSE 599 Special Topics in Computer Science (1-5, max. 30)Studies of emerging areas and specialized topics in computer science.
Sociology^Survey of Sociology Survey of Sociology SOC 110 Survey of Sociology (5) I&SHuman interaction, social institutions, social stratification, socialization, deviance, social control, social and cultural change. Course content may vary, depending upon instructor.
Sociology^American Society American Society SOC 111 American Society (5) I&SExplores the power of social structures using examples drawn primarily from the American culture. The impact of social institutions, the emergence of concrete patterns of social relations which organize and regulate social life and the inequality inherent in most social structures.
Sociology^Study Abroad: Sociology Study Abroad: Sociology SOC 195 Study Abroad: Sociology (2-5, max. 10) I&SLower-division sociology courses for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through a University of Washington study abroad program.
Sociology^Introductory Topics in Sociology Introductory Topics in Sociology SOC 201 Introductory Topics in Sociology (3-5, max. 10) I&SSelected introductory topics of contemporary interest.
Sociology^Stability and Change in American Society Stability and Change in American Society SOC 211 Stability and Change in American Society (5) I&SExamines two views of American life that dominate public discourse: one, that the United States is the best country in the world, the other that it is in decline. Addresses questions like: what is the United States really like; what values do Americans share; how do their values affect success and hope for a better society?
Sociology^Evolution and Revolution: An Introduction to the Study of Comparative Social Change Evolution and Revolution: An Introduction to the Study of Comparative Social Change SOC 212 Evolution and Revolution: An Introduction to the Study of Comparative Social Change (5) I&S, DIVExamines the major aspects of human societies, including political and economic systems, family structure, social stratification, and demographic patterns as influenced by environmental conditions, technology, cultural traditions, and legacies of prior history and relationships to other societies.
Sociology^Introduction to Urban Sociology Introduction to Urban Sociology SOC 215 Introduction to Urban Sociology (5) I&SIntroduces the field of urban sociology. Focuses primarily on urban dynamics in the United States with attention to the global context in which they operate.
Sociology^Introduction to Sociological Methods Introduction to Sociological Methods SOC 220 Introduction to Sociological Methods (5) I&S, QSRFamiliarizes students with the logic of analysis in social sciences. Students learn to recognize good research design, understand and interpret main arguments employing different methods, and evaluate whether research findings support stated conclusions.
Sociology^Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences SOC 221 Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences (5) NW, QSRDevelops statistical literacy. Examines objectives and pitfalls of statistical studies; study designs, data analysis, inference; graphical and numerical summaries of numerical and categorical data; correlation and regression; and estimation, confidence intervals, and significance tests. Emphasizes social science examples and cases. (Students may receive credit for only one of STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, and ECON 311.) Offered: jointly with CS&SS 221/STAT 221; AWSp.
Sociology^Sociology of Sport Sociology of Sport SOC 222 Sociology of Sport (5) I&S WeisIntroduction to the sociological analysis of sport. Issues discussed include the history, definition, and functions of sport; role of sport in the socialization of children; the relationship between sport and values; athletics within the social organization of education; deviance, crime, and violence in sport; the business and economics of sport.
Sociology^Sociology of Rock and Roll Sociology of Rock and Roll SOC 223 Sociology of Rock and Roll (5) I&SSociological analysis of a very influential and popular musical art form, from it origins in the first half of the twentieth century to more contemporary social contexts. Examines the roles of race relations, social class, gender, inequalities, region, genre, commercial exploitation, and technology in the evolution of rock and roll.
Sociology^Introduction to Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities in the United States Introduction to Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities in the United States SOC 230 Introduction to Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities in the United States (5) I&S, DIVExamines health status and healthcare disparities among racial/ethnic minority groups in the United States. Utilize sociological, demographic, (social) epidemiological, and (social) psychological concepts to introduce students to racial/ethnic health disparities research.
Sociology^Introduction to Social Psychology Introduction to Social Psychology SOC 240 Introduction to Social Psychology (5) I&SIntroduction to social psychology with an emphasis on sociological perspectives and problems.
Sociology^Contemporary Social Movements Contemporary Social Movements SOC 247 Contemporary Social Movements (5) I&SIntroduction to theory and research on national-level collective mobilizations organized for political change. Emphasis on how political, organizational, and cultural factors shape social movement emergence and development, and individual participation.
Sociology^African American Family African American Family SOC 260 African American Family (5) I&S, DIVExplores the structures and functioning of various types of black families. Single-parent families, two-parent families, extended families, and consensual families are explored. Their consequences for male/female relationships are linked and critiqued. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 260.
Sociology^The African American Experience Through Literature The African American Experience Through Literature SOC 261 The African American Experience Through Literature (5) VLPA/I&S ScottInstructs students in hermeneutical and sociological methods of analyses. Analyzes selected novels, essays, poems, short stories, and plays with the purpose of understanding the structures and functions of both society and personality. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 261.
Sociology^Introduction to Labor Studies Introduction to Labor Studies SOC 266 Introduction to Labor Studies (5) I&SConceptual and theoretical issues in the study of labor and work. Role of labor in national and international politics. Formation of labor movements. Historical and contemporary role of labor in the modern world. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 249/POL S 249.
Sociology^Social Problems Social Problems SOC 270 Social Problems (5) I&S, DIVProcesses of social and personal disorganization and reorganization in relation to poverty, crime, suicide, family disorganization, mental disorders, and similar social problems.
Sociology^Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and Social Control Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and Social Control SOC 271 Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and Social Control (5) I&SExamination of deviance, deviant behavior, and social control. Deviance as a social process; types of deviant behavior (e.g., suicide, mental illness, drug use, crime, "sexual deviance," delinquency); theories of deviance and deviant behavior; nature and social organization of societal reactions; and social and legal policy issues.
Sociology^Murder Murder SOC 275 Murder (5) I&S WeisIntroduces topics related to the crime of murder, including: laws of homicide; research on the characteristics of victims, killers, and murders; theories of murder and related violence; investigation strategies; and crime and control policies.
Sociology^Introduction of the Sociology of Sexuality Introduction of the Sociology of Sexuality SOC 287 Introduction of the Sociology of Sexuality (5) I&S, DIVInvestigates sexuality on the basis of social construction of norms and values, within the context of gender, race, class, and sub-cultures and in the social control of sexuality and why it is so highly regulated. Looks for social rather than biological or personal explanations for why human sexuality is conceptualized or practiced in a certain way.
Sociology^Who Gets Ahead? Public Schooling in America Who Gets Ahead? Public Schooling in America SOC 292 Who Gets Ahead? Public Schooling in America (5) I&S, DIVAddresses fundamental questions about the relationship between education and society. Examines why some students learn more and advance further than others; what factors shape how schools are run/organized and which materials are taught; how race/class/gender affect students within schools; how schools maintain our economic system and can become more effective.
Sociology^Sociology Interest Group Sociology Interest Group SOC 299 Sociology Interest Group (2) I&SProvides opportunity for students new to the major, or contemplating the major, to meet twice weekly in a small group to discuss issues relating to two designated five-credit sociology courses. Concurrent enrollment in the two five-credit designated courses required. See department adviser.
Sociology^Foundations of Social Inquiry Foundations of Social Inquiry SOC 300 Foundations of Social Inquiry (5) I&SCovers what makes social science a science, the components of good research design, and what counts as valid evidence for sociological claims. Pays special attention to links between theory, research questions, and data. Offered: AWSpS.
Sociology^War War SOC 301 War (5) I&SOrigins and conduct of war; readings from anthropology, political science, economics, and history, as well as novels and some recent works on the arms-control controversy. Modern forms of warfare, including guerrilla war, world war, and nuclear war. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 301.
Sociology^Introduction to Sociological Theory Introduction to Sociological Theory SOC 316 Introduction to Sociological Theory (5) I&SIntroduction to sociological theory. Includes classical theorists Adam Smith, Karl Marx, Emile Durkheim, and Max Weber and their influence on contemporary theoretical debate.
Sociology^Evaluating Social Science Evidence Evaluating Social Science Evidence SOC 320 Evaluating Social Science Evidence (5) I&S, QSRA critical introduction to the methods used to collect data in social science: surveys, archival research, experiments, and participant observation. Evaluates "facts and findings" by understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the methods that produce them. Case based. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 320/STAT 320.
Sociology^Case-Based Social Statistics I Case-Based Social Statistics I SOC 321 Case-Based Social Statistics I (5) I&S, QSRIntroduction to statistical reasoning for social scientists. Built around cases representing in-depth investigations into the nature and content of statistical and social-science principles and practice. Hands-on approach: weekly data-analysis laboratory. Fundamental statistical topics: measurement, exploratory data analysis, probabilistic concepts, distributions, assessment of statistical evidence. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 321/STAT 321.
Sociology^Case-Based Social Statistics II Case-Based Social Statistics II SOC 322 Case-Based Social Statistics II (5) I&S, QSRContinuation of CS&SS 321/SOC 321/STAT 321. Progresses to questions of assessing the weight of evidence and more sophisticated models including regression-based methods. Built around cases investigating the nature and content of statistical principles and practice. Hands-on approach: weekly data analysis laboratory.
Sociology^Methodology of Sociological Research Methodology of Sociological Research SOC 328 Methodology of Sociological Research (5-) I&S, QSRLogic of formulating, testing, and modifying hypotheses. Methods of producing social data (survey research, evaluation research, field observation) and utilizing stored data (census tapes, historical materials). Methods of quantitative data analysis techniques commonly used in contemporary sociological analysis. Not open for credit to students who have taken SOC 320.
Sociology^Methodology of Sociological Research Methodology of Sociological Research SOC 329 Methodology of Sociological Research (-5) I&S, QSRLogic of formulating, testing, and modifying hypotheses. Methods of producing social data (survey research, evaluation research, field observation) and utilizing stored data (census tapes, historical materials). Methods of quantitative data analysis techniques commonly used in contemporary sociological analysis. Not open for credit to students who have taken SOC 320 or SOC 323.
Sociology^Human Ecology Human Ecology SOC 330 Human Ecology (5) I&SFactors and forces that determine the distribution of people and institutions.
Sociology^Population and Society Population and Society SOC 331 Population and Society (5) I&SPopulation growth and distribution, population composition, population theory, urbanization. Determinants and consequences of fertility and mortality trends and migration in economically developed and underdeveloped areas.
Sociology^Symbolic Interaction Symbolic Interaction SOC 340 Symbolic Interaction (5) I&SExamines the role of language, culture, and the symbolic environment in shaping interpersonal processes.
Sociology^Tutoring Sociology Tutoring Sociology SOC 341 Tutoring Sociology (2-4, max. 4)Trains students to serve as tutors in designated courses. Teaches how to assist with writing assignments, explain course material, and lead group discussions.
Sociology^Cognitive Social Psychology Cognitive Social Psychology SOC 344 Cognitive Social Psychology (5) I&SCognitive structures and processes and their antecedents and consequences, both societal and individual. Reciprocal influences of social roles, social institutions, and social cognition.
Sociology^Sects and Violence: Cults, Religious Innovation, and Social Conflict Sects and Violence: Cults, Religious Innovation, and Social Conflict SOC 345 Sects and Violence: Cults, Religious Innovation, and Social Conflict (5) I&SExamines controversial religious groups often called cults. Uses sociological lenses to examine cults' occasionally catastrophic conflicts with government authorities, established religious organizations, and anti-cult movements.
Sociology^Group Processes Group Processes SOC 346 Group Processes (5) I&SSystematic analysis of social processes in small groups, including conformity, deviance, cooperation, competition, coalition formation, status and role differentiation, inequity, communication, and authority and power. A variety of methods of research are considered: field studies, field experiments, laboratory studies, and the simulation of social processes.
Sociology^National Social Movements: Current Trends and Explanations National Social Movements: Current Trends and Explanations SOC 347 National Social Movements: Current Trends and Explanations (5) I&SIntroduction to theory and research on a specific form of social movement: national-level collective mobilizations organized for political change. Emphasizes how political, organizational, and cultural factors shape social movement emergence and development. Focuses on American activism, New Left, women's movements, the abortion conflict, gay/lesbian activism, and Central American Peace movement.
Sociology^Intimate Relationships Intimate Relationships SOC 351 Intimate Relationships (5) I&SExplores the nature of love, desire, and commitment between heterosexual and homosexual couples, as well as parenting as a dyadic act. Evaluates political and social pressures and preferences on these topics within our society in a comparative context.
Sociology^The Family The Family SOC 352 The Family (5) I&SThe family as a social institution. Historical changes and societal variation in family patterns. Changes over the life cycle. Alternative family forms.
Sociology^The Family in Cross-Cultural Perspective The Family in Cross-Cultural Perspective SOC 353 The Family in Cross-Cultural Perspective (5) I&S ScottForm, content, and functions of families through case studies of different countries. Family organization, including family structure, inheritance, sexual division of labor, and socialization with attention given to life-cycle stages.
Sociology^Social Change in Latin America Social Change in Latin America SOC 355 Social Change in Latin America (5) I&SExplores cultures, identities, political economy, and popular mobilization in Latin America. Examines relations of power and production between social classes and ethnic groups, as well as ideologies and intellectual movements. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 355.
Sociology^Society and Politics Society and Politics SOC 356 Society and Politics (5) I&SCauses of political change in democratic countries, including public opinion, social movements, interest group activity, and party organization. Offered: jointly with POL S 356.
Sociology^Sociology of Religion Sociology of Religion SOC 357 Sociology of Religion (5) I&SThe relations between religion, polity, economy, and social structure; in particular, the political, economic, and social impact of religious beliefs and organizations, as well as the social determination of these beliefs and organizations; the rise of secularism, the rationalization of modern life, and the emergence of political quasi-religions.
Sociology^Introduction to Social Stratification Introduction to Social Stratification SOC 360 Introduction to Social Stratification (5) I&S, DIVSocial class and social inequality in American society. Status, power, authority, and unequal opportunity are examined in depth, using material from other societies to provide a comparative and historical perspective. Sociological origins of recurrent conflicts involving race, sex, poverty, and political ideology.
Sociology^Race Relations Race Relations SOC 362 Race Relations (5) I&S, DIVReviews social science perspectives on race and ethnicity. Explores sociological definitions and understandings associated with race and ethnicity and the construction of identities. Examines different issues that impact individuals' and groups' life chances.
Sociology^Ethnicity, Business, Unions, and Society Ethnicity, Business, Unions, and Society SOC 363 Ethnicity, Business, Unions, and Society (5) I&S ScottInterrelationships of ethnicity, business, unions, and the larger society. Examines financial and sociological structure of business and manufacturing sector, how this sector performs, and consequences of performance for selected ethnic groups in United States. Offered: jointly with AES 361.
Sociology^Women in the Social Structure Women in the Social Structure SOC 364 Women in the Social Structure (5) I&SGender and social institutions; the family, politics, education, medicine, law, the labor force. Intersection of gender with other minority statuses such as race, age, socioeconomic status, and sexual orientation. Structural, ideological, and historical determinants of gender relations.
Sociology^Urban Community Urban Community SOC 365 Urban Community (5) I&S GuestComparative and analytic study of organization and activities of urban groups.
Sociology^Sociology of Organizations Sociology of Organizations SOC 366 Sociology of Organizations (5) I&SIntroduction to the sociological study of organizations including what organizations are, where they come from, and how they relate to individuals, other organizations, and other institutions of society.
Sociology^Sociology of Black Americans Sociology of Black Americans SOC 368 Sociology of Black Americans (5) I&SSocio-cultural context of the Black person's environment and consequences of interaction with that environment.
Sociology^Criminology Criminology SOC 371 Criminology (5) I&S Crutchfield, MatsuedaSurvey of legal definitions, types of criminal behavior, trends and patterns, recidivism, characteristics of offenders, environmental influences, diagnostic methods, prediction, theories of crime and delinquency prevention, social policy.
Sociology^Introduction to Criminal Justice Introduction to Criminal Justice SOC 372 Introduction to Criminal Justice (5) I&SExamines role of police, courts, and corrections in criminal justice. Applies sociological theories and perspectives to issues in law enforcement, adjudication, and corrections. Legislative reforms. Innovations in policy.
Sociology^Law and Society Law and Society SOC 374 Law and Society (5) I&SIntroduces major issues of the sociological foundations and implications of legal institutions; examines social life within legal institutions, the individual and collective justice, the malleability of precedent, and truth and the effects of inequality on legal outcomes. Encompasses legal practice and social science.
Sociology^Sociology of Juvenile Justice Sociology of Juvenile Justice SOC 375 Sociology of Juvenile Justice (5) I&S HarrisOverviews the United States juvenile justice system and related societal issues, including racial and ethnic disproportionality, the criminalization of delinquent offenders, and the future of the juvenile justice system.
Sociology^Drugs and Society Drugs and Society SOC 376 Drugs and Society (5) I&S K. BECKETT, J. WENDERExplores the questions of drug use and abuse, social and political factors that shape response to their use, and the social conditions under which drug use is likely to have adverse consequences. Also covers U.S. drug control policy, the political economy of legal and illegal drugs, and political aspects of drug use. Offered: jointly with LSJ 376.
Sociology^The American Jewish Community The American Jewish Community SOC 377 The American Jewish Community (5) I&S, DIV BursteinDevelopment and current status of American Jewish community: immigration; changes in religious practice, institutions in response to circumstances in American society; creation of new types of secular communal organizations; assimilation; confrontation with antisemitism; family life; social, economic mobility; religious, secular education; intermarriage, and future of community. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 377.
Sociology^Contemporary Jewish American Identities Contemporary Jewish American Identities SOC 378 Contemporary Jewish American Identities (5) I&S, DIV FriedmanIntroduction to the debates about post-Holocaust Jewish identities in multicultural America. Explores whether a distinctive Jewish community is headed toward assimilation, experiencing revival, or merely transforming the multiple ways Jewish experience is lived. Topics include new Jewish immigrants, the new Orthodox, Black Jews, Jewish feminism, children of Holocaust survivors. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 378.
Sociology^Environmental Sociology Environmental Sociology SOC 379 Environmental Sociology (5) I&S/NW S. ASAHSocial processes by which environmental conditions are transformed into environmental problems; scientific claims, popularization of science, issue-framing, problem-amplification, economic opportunism, and institutional sponsorship. Examination of social constructs such as ecosystem, community, and free-market economy. Use of human ecology to assess whether the current framing of environmental problems promotes ecological adaptability. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 379/ESRM 371; A.
Sociology^Study Abroad: Sociology Study Abroad: Sociology SOC 395 Study Abroad: Sociology (2-5, max. 15) I&SUpper-division sociology courses for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through a University of Washington study abroad program.
Sociology^Undergraduate Internship Undergraduate Internship SOC 399 Undergraduate Internship (2-5, max. 10)Students serve in approved internships.
Sociology^Special Topics in Sociology Special Topics in Sociology SOC 401 Special Topics in Sociology (5, max. 15) I&SSelected topics of contemporary interest taught by a sociologist active in the field. Topics vary and may be substantive, theoretical, or methodological.
Sociology^Sociology in Practice: Education Service Program Sociology in Practice: Education Service Program SOC 402 Sociology in Practice: Education Service Program (5) I&SCombines an experience in tutoring with critical reflection on practical and theoretical issues in education. Gives practical classroom experience as well as insight into the complexity of public schools and issues in education policy. Students may receive a maximum of 10 credits from SOC 402, SOC 403, SOC 404, and SOC 494.
Sociology^Sociology in Practice: Applied Community Research Program Sociology in Practice: Applied Community Research Program SOC 403 Sociology in Practice: Applied Community Research Program (5) I&SParticipation in a project-based research group for a real-world client, addressing complex and enduring problems of urban life. Students may receive a maximum of 10 credits from SOC 402, SOC 403, SOC 404, and SOC 494.
Sociology^Sociology in Practice: Community/Civic Internship Program Sociology in Practice: Community/Civic Internship Program SOC 404 Sociology in Practice: Community/Civic Internship Program (5) I&SCombines real-world benefits of internships with critical reflections provided in a seminar. Students intern as local agencies and organizations, and may either come with their own internship or apply for specialized internships through the Sociology Department. Students may receive a maximum of 10 credits from SOC 402, SOC 403, SOC 404, and SOC 494.
Sociology^History of Sociological Thought History of Sociological Thought SOC 410 History of Sociological Thought (5) I&SContributions of individual theorists (from Comte to the present); emphasis on cumulative development of concepts and principles, emergence of sociology as a science, probable future developments.
Sociology^The City and Neighborhood Dynamics The City and Neighborhood Dynamics SOC 415 The City and Neighborhood Dynamics (5) I&SFocuses on a diverse set of topics including the changing social meaning of community, the effects of the urban setting on social interactions and attitudes, urban poverty, residential segregation, and the neighborhood dynamics of crime. Students have the opportunity to contribute directly to research- and policy-related projects.
Sociology^Sociological Theory Sociological Theory SOC 416 Sociological Theory (5) I&STheories of individual action, social order, and institutional change. Cumulative development of solutions rather than on works of given theorists. Theories of social order. How sociological treatments of these issues compare with those offered by economists and other social scientists.
Sociology^Sociology of Food Sociology of Food SOC 420 Sociology of Food (5) I&SProvides a historical and comparative overview of what people eat and how this relates to other types of social differentiation.
Sociology^Social Determinates of Health and Health Disparities Social Determinates of Health and Health Disparities SOC 430 Social Determinates of Health and Health Disparities (5) I&S, DIVExamine the social conditions related to the health of populations. How patterns of health vary by social class, race/ethnicity, and gender and some mechanisms that produce and maintain these differences.
Sociology^Population and Modernization Population and Modernization SOC 432 Population and Modernization (3) I&S Hirschman, LavelyExamines role of demographic factors in the process of social modernization and economic growth. The approach is both historical, focusing on populations of developed countries since 1700, and analytic, stressing the attempts made by different disciplines to model demographic relationships, with attention to less-developed regions. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 435.
Sociology^Demographic Issues in Asia Demographic Issues in Asia SOC 434 Demographic Issues in Asia (3-5) I&S Hirschman, LavelyContemporary Asian countries face a number of issues with demographic components, including environmental and resource issues, ethnic rivalries, international migration, and public health. Addresses a set of these issues by focusing on the demography of one or more countries in Asia. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 431.
Sociology^Comparative Social Problems Comparative Social Problems SOC 440 Comparative Social Problems (5) I&SExamines a variety of social problems from a comparative perspective. Issues such as epidemics, slavery, and genocide within and beyond U.S. borders analyzed with historical and contemporary examples.
Sociology^Religious Movements: The Sociology of Cults and Sects Religious Movements: The Sociology of Cults and Sects SOC 445 Religious Movements: The Sociology of Cults and Sects (5) I&SInvestigates the organizational dynamics of new religious movements. Seeks to understand why ' cults' emerge and how they proliferate or decay. Examines conflicts within established churches, counter-movements, and the state.
Sociology^Social Movements Social Movements SOC 447 Social Movements (5) I&SSocial movements as collective attempts to change society: why people join; characteristics of successful and unsuccessful movements; consequences of social movement activities.
Sociology^Political Economy of Women and Family in the Third World Political Economy of Women and Family in the Third World SOC 450 Political Economy of Women and Family in the Third World (5) I&STheoretical and empirical aspects of the political economy of women and the family in the Third World during the process of development, with a focus on labor. Main theoretical approaches examined and applied to case studies from Asia and Latin America. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 450.
Sociology^Theory and Process of Social Change Theory and Process of Social Change SOC 451 Theory and Process of Social Change (5) I&SBasic trends in economic and social development; comparative and historical analysis of social and economic changes; the rise of capitalist societies.
Sociology^Political Sociology Political Sociology SOC 456 Political Sociology (5) I&SRelationships between social change and political change. Focus on selected issues, including social bases of democracy, political organization, elections, and consequences of public policy.
Sociology^Social Differentiation Social Differentiation SOC 460 Social Differentiation (5) I&SAnalysis of societal organization based on sex, age, residence, occupation, community, class, caste, and race.
Sociology^Comparative Ethnic Race Relations in the Americas Comparative Ethnic Race Relations in the Americas SOC 461 Comparative Ethnic Race Relations in the Americas (5) I&SSketches the ethnoracial systems operating in American society. Studies these systems as systems and examines their institutional and interpersonal dynamics. Compares ethnoracial systems in order to arrive at empirical generalizations about race/ethnorelations in the Americas. Offered: jointly with AES 461.
Sociology^Comparative Race and Ethnic Relations Comparative Race and Ethnic Relations SOC 462 Comparative Race and Ethnic Relations (5) I&S, DIVRace and ethnicity as factors of social differentiation in a number of Western and non-Western societies in Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Americas. Offered: jointly with AES 462.
Sociology^African-American Political Thought African-American Political Thought SOC 463 African-American Political Thought (5) I&SExamines the historical and sociological experiences of African-Americans from slavery, emancipation, mobilization, and organization, to present socioeconomic situation. Reviews the political philosophy of black leaders from the early black conventions to today, the black experience in the American education system, and origins and evolution of the black middle class.
Sociology^Contemporary Society in the People's Republic of China Contemporary Society in the People's Republic of China SOC 464 Contemporary Society in the People's Republic of China (5) I&S LavelySeparate development of rural and urban social institutions in the People's Republic of China since 1949 from a sociological perspective. Family and marriage, social control, educational institutions. Dilemmas of contemporary China and reasons for institutional change. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 464.
Sociology^Complex Organizations Complex Organizations SOC 465 Complex Organizations (5) I&SExamination of the structure of complex organizations. Attention to developing generalizations applicable to industrial organizations, businesses, hospitals, prisons, labor unions, governments, universities, armies, and similar formally instituted organizations. The major focus is on empirical research, with some attention to methodological problems in studying such organizations.
Sociology^Economic Sociology Economic Sociology SOC 466 Economic Sociology (5) I&SChanging focus of field; cultural variation, work, and the worker; technology, society, and the evolution of industrial forms; types and forms of industrial organizations; industrial organizations as social and technical systems; issues of control, process, and change; the individual in social and technical systems.
Sociology^Immigration and Ethnicity Immigration and Ethnicity SOC 467 Immigration and Ethnicity (5) I&S, DIVFocus on contemporary American diversity - the multiethnic, multicultural society created by recent immigrants from Latin America, Asia, and by people of European, African, and American Indian origins; its issues and debates, including ethnic conflict, integration, multiculturalism, and assimilation, as viewed through comparisons with the past and with other societies.
Sociology^Sociology of Occupations and Professions Sociology of Occupations and Professions SOC 468 Sociology of Occupations and Professions (5) I&SFrameworks for study of occupations and professions; occupational structure and mobility in American society in relation to adult socialization and career development; occupational and professional associations and society.
Sociology^Balkan Societies Balkan Societies SOC 469 Balkan Societies (5) I&SExamination of the roots of Balkan social problems (economic backwardness, minority-group conflicts, peasant problem), the failure of pre-1945 attempts to solve these problems, the post-1945 communist failures, the causes of the upheavals of 1989, and the prospects for success in the 1990s.
Sociology^Contemporary Southeast Asia Contemporary Southeast Asia SOC 470 Contemporary Southeast Asia (5) I&SSociological survey of Southeast Asia, including development, demographic changes, family structure, and ethnic relations.
Sociology^Juvenile Delinquency Juvenile Delinquency SOC 472 Juvenile Delinquency (5) I&SFactors in delinquency, juvenile courts. Programs of treatment and prevention.
Sociology^Miscarriages of Justice Miscarriages of Justice SOC 476 Miscarriages of Justice (5) I&SExamines legal and social factors that shape criminal case outcomes, analyzing how one type of miscarriage of justice - wrongful conviction - occurs. How can cases of wrongful conviction be explained? Why are some people, against whom there is only weak evidence, convicted-and sometimes even executed? Offered: jointly with LSJ 476.
Sociology^Issues in Analytic Sociology Issues in Analytic Sociology SOC 481 Issues in Analytic Sociology (5, max. 15) I&SExamination of current issues in sociological analysis. Specific content of the course varies according to recent developments in sociology and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Issues in Analytic Sociology Issues in Analytic Sociology SOC 482 Issues in Analytic Sociology (3, max. 9) I&SExamination of current issues in sociological analysis. Specific content of the course varies according to recent developments in sociology and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Issues in Analytic Sociology Issues in Analytic Sociology SOC 483 Issues in Analytic Sociology (1-3, max. 9) I&SExamination of current issues in sociological analysis. Specific content of the course varies according to recent developments in sociology and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Sociology of Gender and Sexuality Sociology of Gender and Sexuality SOC 487 Sociology of Gender and Sexuality (5) I&SAddresses the intersection of gender and sexuality in U.S. society, social institutions and movements, families, and the individual. Topics include the history of sexuality as practiced and politicized since colonial times, major theoretical approaches to sexuality, and how gender and other social status characteristics influence the meanings of sexuality.
Sociology^The Urban Underclass The Urban Underclass SOC 490 The Urban Underclass (5) I&SExamines underlying issues which have led to the emergence and perpetuation of an underclass within an affluent society. Explores some of the consequences for these people and for this society. Considers policies that might be used to address problems of the urban underclass.
Sociology^Sociology of Education Sociology of Education SOC 492 Sociology of Education (5) I&SEmphasizes the ways in which schools and colleges reproduce, reinforce, and challenge prevailing social, economic, and political relationships. Examines the structures, practices, content, and outcomes of schooling and its relationship to the wider society as well as the rise and dynamics of the modern education system.
Sociology^Practicum Practicum SOC 494 Practicum (5, max. 10) I&SExploration of selected sociological concepts or problems through advanced practical experience in research, internships, or other applications. Topics vary.
Sociology^Honors Senior Thesis Honors Senior Thesis SOC 495 Honors Senior Thesis (1-5, max. 5) I&SPreparation of senior Honors thesis. Sociology majors only.
Sociology^Honors Senior Seminar Honors Senior Seminar SOC 496 Honors Senior Seminar ([3/5]-) I&SExploration of selected sociological problems with emphasis on research experience and the interpretation of data. For sociology majors only, primarily for Honors students. Offered: A.
Sociology^Honors Senior Seminar Honors Senior Seminar SOC 497 Honors Senior Seminar (-[3/5]-) I&SExploration of selected sociological problems with emphasis on research experience and the interpretation of data. For sociology majors only, primarily for Honors students. Offered: W.
Sociology^Undergraduate Independent Study or Research Undergraduate Independent Study or Research SOC 499 Undergraduate Independent Study or Research (2-5, max. 10)
Sociology^Teaching Sociology as a Teaching Assistant Teaching Sociology as a Teaching Assistant SOC 500 Teaching Sociology as a Teaching Assistant (1)Techniques of quiz section administration, advising of students, and student evaluation important to successful teaching as a Teaching Assistant. Students develop presentations and classroom materials and develop and grade student examinations.
Sociology^Proseminar Proseminar SOC 501 Proseminar (1-3, max. 3)Introduction for first-year graduate students to substantive areas of sociology, research and information resources, and issues in graduate education and professional socialization. Offered: AWSp.
Sociology^Seminar on Teaching Sociology Seminar on Teaching Sociology SOC 502 Seminar on Teaching Sociology (3)Techniques of lecturing, leading discussion, evaluating student performance, and other pedagogical skills ancillary to successful teaching. Students develop a course and obtain videotaped feedback of presentations.
Sociology^Seminar on Writing Social Science Seminar on Writing Social Science SOC 503 Seminar on Writing Social Science (3)Techniques, skills, and strategies helpful for publishing in the social sciences. Includes writing and revision of own work and evaluation of the writing of other students. Also includes social scientific analysis of writing and other forms of academic communication.
Sociology^Applied Social Statistics Applied Social Statistics SOC 504 Applied Social Statistics (3-)Applications of statistics in sociology and related social sciences. Emphasis on problems of analysis with imperfect data. Probability in statistical inference. Analysis of variance; contingency table analysis, nonparametric procedures; regression analysis in social research.
Sociology^Applied Social Statistics Applied Social Statistics SOC 505 Applied Social Statistics (-3)Applications of statistics in sociology and related social sciences. Emphasis on problems of analysis with imperfect data. Probability in statistical inference. Analysis of variance; contingency table analysis, nonparametric procedures; regression analysis in social research.
Sociology^Methodology: Quantitative Techniques in Sociology Methodology: Quantitative Techniques in Sociology SOC 506 Methodology: Quantitative Techniques in Sociology (3)Applied regression analysis with emphasis on interactive computer graphics techniques and interpretation. Application to typical sociological problems. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 507.
Sociology^Statistical Classification and Measurement Statistical Classification and Measurement SOC 507 Statistical Classification and Measurement (3)Application of statistical principles and methods to problems of classification and measurement in social research.
Sociology^Logic of Social Inquiry Logic of Social Inquiry SOC 508 Logic of Social Inquiry (3)Study design from problem formulation to the analysis and interpretation of data.
Sociology^Practicum in Data Analysis Practicum in Data Analysis SOC 509 Practicum in Data Analysis (3)Introduction to selected programs for data analysis and practice in their application. Practice in coordination of research problem, data, and mode of analysis into a coherent, interrelated set. Interpretation of results. Offered: A.
Sociology^Seminar in Sociological Theory Seminar in Sociological Theory SOC 510 Seminar in Sociological Theory (3)Macrosociological theories; functionalism and neoevolutionism; conflict and consensus approach; comparative strategies; models and long-range theories; ideology and sociology. From Marx and de Tocqueville to contemporary literature.
Sociology^Classical Social Theory Classical Social Theory SOC 511 Classical Social Theory (3)Study of classical masters of social theory: Marx, Durkheim, and Weber, their precursors, and their immediate successors.
Sociology^Review of Mathematics for Social Scientists Review of Mathematics for Social Scientists SOC 512 Review of Mathematics for Social Scientists (1)Reviews basic mathematical skills needed for a meaningful understanding of elementary statistics, data analysis, and social science methodology. Overview of core knowledge required for graduate courses in quantitative methods in social sciences. Topics include discrete mathematics, differential and integral calculus, review of matrix algebra, and basic probabilistic and statistical concepts. Offered: jointly with CS&SS 505.
Sociology^Demography and Ecology Demography and Ecology SOC 513 Demography and Ecology (3) HirschmanTheories and research on human fertility, mortality, mobility, migration, and urbanization in social/economic context. Comparative and historical materials on Europe, the United States, and the Third World. Offered: jointly with CSDE 513.
Sociology^Current Theories in Social Psychology Current Theories in Social Psychology SOC 514 Current Theories in Social Psychology (3)Broad graduate-level introduction to the theories in the field of social psychology.
Sociology^Current Research in Social Psychology Current Research in Social Psychology SOC 515 Current Research in Social Psychology (3) HowardBroad graduate-level introduction to the research in the field of social psychology.
Sociology^Organizations Organizations SOC 516 Organizations (3)Broad graduate-level introduction to the theory and research on complex organizations.
Sociology^Deviance and Social Control Deviance and Social Control SOC 517 Deviance and Social Control (3)Survey of current research on deviant behavior and mechanisms of social control; definitions and forms of deviant behavior, causal analysis, and legal or other methods of social control.
Sociology^Social Stratification Social Stratification SOC 518 Social Stratification (3)Intensive preparation in theoretical, methodological, and substantive topics in social stratification.
Sociology^Fieldwork: Observation and Interviewing Fieldwork: Observation and Interviewing SOC 519 Fieldwork: Observation and Interviewing (3-)Perspective, logic, and techniques of qualitative social research and analysis. Nature and uses of intensive interviewing, participant observation, and analytic ethnography. Application of field research principles. Research project required in addition to reading and analysis of classic studies.
Sociology^Fieldwork: Observation and Interviewing Fieldwork: Observation and Interviewing SOC 520 Fieldwork: Observation and Interviewing (-3)Logic and techniques of qualitative social research and analysis. Intensive interviewing, participant observation, qualitative data analysis (including applications of data base technology, problem reformulation, and techniques of visual documentation). Results of student work reported and discussed in class.
Sociology^Master's Thesis Research Seminar Master's Thesis Research Seminar SOC 524 Master's Thesis Research Seminar (1, max. 3)Facilitates the development of a thesis and its execution. Forum for refining research questions, presenting work in progress, and receiving feedback from instructor and other students on ideas and written work.
Sociology^Causal Approach to Theory Building and Data Analysis Causal Approach to Theory Building and Data Analysis SOC 526 Causal Approach to Theory Building and Data Analysis (3)Theory construction and testing from a causal models perspective. Path analysis, standardized versus unstandardized measures, feedback models, identification problems, estimation in overidentified models, difference equations, differential equations, stability conditions. Multiplicative models as alternatives to additive ones. Causal approach to measurement error.
Sociology^Measurement of Basic Sociological Concepts Measurement of Basic Sociological Concepts SOC 527 Measurement of Basic Sociological Concepts (3)Conceptualization and measurement problems in sociology, using major concepts as illustrations of basic issues. Causal approach to measurement to deal with problems of indirect measurement, cross-level measurement problems, aggregation and disaggregation. Consequences of crude measurement for data analyses.
Sociology^Seminar on Selected Statistical Problems in Social Research Seminar on Selected Statistical Problems in Social Research SOC 528 Seminar on Selected Statistical Problems in Social Research (3) Raftery
Sociology^Structural Equation Models for the Social Sciences Structural Equation Models for the Social Sciences SOC 529 Structural Equation Models for the Social Sciences (3)Structural equation models for the social sciences, including specification, estimation, and testing. Topics include path analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, linear models with latent variables, MIMIC models, non-recursive models, models for nested data. Emphasizes applications to substantive problems in the social sciences.
Sociology^Urbanism and Urbanization Urbanism and Urbanization SOC 530 Urbanism and Urbanization (3) I&SHuman population distribution and migration patterns. Causes and consequences of world urbanization. Spatial and social patterns in the metropolis. Aggregate population movements and selectivity of migrants.
Sociology^Fertility and Mortality Fertility and Mortality SOC 531 Fertility and Mortality (3) I&STheories of fertility and mortality, demographic transitions, individual variations. Specific analytic approaches. Familiarity with basic fertility and mortality measures, and with the life table, is assumed.
Sociology^Research Methods in Demography Research Methods in Demography SOC 533 Research Methods in Demography (3) I&SBasic measures and models used in demographic research. Sources and quality of demographic data. Rate construction, standardization, the life table, stable population models, migration models, population estimation and projection, measures of concentration and dispersion, measures of family formation and dissolution.
Sociology^Analysis of Categorical and Count Data Analysis of Categorical and Count Data SOC 536 Analysis of Categorical and Count Data (3)Analysis of categorical data in the social sciences. Binary, ordered, and multinomial outcomes, event counts, and contingency tables. Focuses on maximum likelihood estimations and interpretations of results.
Sociology^Modeling Emergence: Social Simulation Modeling Emergence: Social Simulation SOC 537 Modeling Emergence: Social Simulation (3)Seminar and practicum in computational modeling of social processes with emphasis on using agent-based simulation models to investigate and refine theory.
Sociology^Selected Topics in Demography and Ecology Selected Topics in Demography and Ecology SOC 539 Selected Topics in Demography and Ecology (3, max. 9)Specialized problems in demography or ecology are covered; for example, migration, fertility, mortality, language, race and ethnic relations, metropolitan community. See quarterly announcement for specific problem to be covered.
Sociology^Selected Topics in Group Processes Selected Topics in Group Processes SOC 542 Selected Topics in Group Processes (3)Theories, methodology, and studies in the area of small-group research.
Sociology^Seminar on Group Solidarity Seminar on Group Solidarity SOC 543 Seminar on Group Solidarity (3)Interdisciplinary perspectives on solidarity, focusing on member commitment, group structure, and contributions to collective goals.
Sociology^Social Cognition and Attribution Social Cognition and Attribution SOC 547 Social Cognition and Attribution (3)Theories and research on social cognition and attribution. Theoretical and methodological debates on cognition. Sociological aspects of attribution.
Sociology^Family and Gender Relations Family and Gender Relations SOC 551 Family and Gender Relations (3)Overview of major research findings on marriage, the family, and gender, including demographic trends, the place of children in society, courtship, the internal management of intimate relationships, divorce, and social policy.
Sociology^Seminar on Gender and Sexuality Seminar on Gender and Sexuality SOC 553 Seminar on Gender and Sexuality (3)Research seminar considering theoretical and empirical approaches to sexuality, with particular attention to the importance of gender. Examines the social control of sexuality by the state and by families, as well as social meanings of sexuality within social movements related to various aspects of sexuality.
Sociology^Seminar in the Sociology of Religion Seminar in the Sociology of Religion SOC 554 Seminar in the Sociology of Religion (3)Survey of significant and active areas of theory and research in contemporary social scientific studies of religion.
Sociology^Methods in Macro, Comparative, and Historical Sociology Methods in Macro, Comparative, and Historical Sociology SOC 555 Methods in Macro, Comparative, and Historical Sociology (3)Systems of conducting research with qualitative methods brought to bear on broad questions.
Sociology^Seminar on Gender Roles Seminar on Gender Roles SOC 559 Seminar on Gender Roles (3)Broad graduate-level introduction to theoretical issues concerning gender and society. Current state of empirical knowledge on the sociology of gender and strategies for research. Cross-cultural variations in conception of gender roles and how gender intersects with social institutions and social interactions.
Sociology^Hierarchical Modeling for the Social Sciences Hierarchical Modeling for the Social Sciences SOC 560 Hierarchical Modeling for the Social Sciences (4)Explores ways in which data are hierarchically organized, such as voters nested within electoral districts that are in turn nested within states. Provides a basic theoretical understanding and practical knowledge of models for clustered data and a set of tools to help make accurate inferences.
Sociology^Seminar in Comparative Race Relations Seminar in Comparative Race Relations SOC 562 Seminar in Comparative Race Relations (3)Cross-cultural approach to race and ethnic relations, including case studies from Africa and Latin America.
Sociology^Inequality: Current Trends and Explanations Inequality: Current Trends and Explanations SOC 565 Inequality: Current Trends and Explanations (3)Discussion of recent growth in economic inequality in the United States and competing explanations for these new trends through examination of labor market demographics, industrial composition and restructuring, and the broader political context that impacts policies like minimum wage, strength of unions, and foreign trade.
Sociology^Seminar in Complex Organizations Seminar in Complex Organizations SOC 566 Seminar in Complex Organizations (3)Special topic seminars in the field of complex organizations or industrial sociology.
Sociology^Seminar in Complex Organizations Seminar in Complex Organizations SOC 567 Seminar in Complex Organizations (3)Special topic seminars in the field of complex organizations or industrial sociology.
Sociology^Social Mobility Social Mobility SOC 568 Social Mobility (3)Description and measurement of social mobility. Determinants of mobility and cross-national comparisons. Consequences of mobility for social behaviors. Emphasizes movement from the socioeconomic position of family of origin to adult position.
Sociology^Demographic Studies of Stratification Demographic Studies of Stratification SOC 569 Demographic Studies of Stratification (3)Overview of development of models of socioeconomic achievement ("status attainment" paradigm) in the field of stratification. Begins with work of Blau and Duncan. Covers elaboration of basic models to include race and ethnicity, social psychological variables, class, school and labor market effects, and other structural variables.
Sociology^Seminar in Environmenal Sociology Seminar in Environmenal Sociology SOC 570 Seminar in Environmenal Sociology (3)Offered: jointly with SEFS 570.
Sociology^Seminar in Methods of Criminological Research Seminar in Methods of Criminological Research SOC 574 Seminar in Methods of Criminological Research (3)Provides training in the technical analysis of published research in criminology; designs and processes studies in parole prediction, prediction of prison adjustment, and prediction of treatment effect.
Sociology^Social Movements: Politics and Organization Social Movements: Politics and Organization SOC 575 Social Movements: Politics and Organization (3)Theoretical perspectives and research on the dynamics of national social movements from a macrosociological perspective. Introduces dominant models that stress organizational and political processes, with some examination of approaches that consider the intersection of politics, organization, and culture. Emphasis on the United States.
Sociology^Special Topics in Theory and the History of Sociological Thought Special Topics in Theory and the History of Sociological Thought SOC 581 Special Topics in Theory and the History of Sociological Thought (3, max. 9)Examination of current topics in theory and the history of sociological thought. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Research Methods and Statistical Analysis in Sociology Special Topics in Research Methods and Statistical Analysis in Sociology SOC 582 Special Topics in Research Methods and Statistical Analysis in Sociology (3, max. 9)Examination of current topics in research methods and statistical analysis in sociology. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Demography and Ecology Special Topics in Demography and Ecology SOC 583 Special Topics in Demography and Ecology (3, max. 9)Examination of current topics in demography and ecology. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Social Psychology Special Topics in Social Psychology SOC 584 Special Topics in Social Psychology (3, max. 9)Examination of current substantive topics in social psychology. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Marriage and Family Special Topics in Marriage and Family SOC 585 Special Topics in Marriage and Family (3, max. 9)Examination of current substantive topics in marriage and the family. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Organization and Industrial Sociology Special Topics in Organization and Industrial Sociology SOC 586 Special Topics in Organization and Industrial Sociology (3, max. 9)Examination of current substantive topics in organizational and industrial sociology. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Deviance and Social Control Special Topics in Deviance and Social Control SOC 587 Special Topics in Deviance and Social Control (1-3, max. 9)Examination of current substantive topics in deviance and social control. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Stratification and Race Relations Special Topics in Stratification and Race Relations SOC 588 Special Topics in Stratification and Race Relations (3, max. 9)Examination of current substantive topics in stratification and race relations. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Macrosociology Special Topics in Macrosociology SOC 589 Special Topics in Macrosociology (3, max. 9)Examination of current substantive topics in macrosociology. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor.
Sociology^Special Topics in Sociology Special Topics in Sociology SOC 590 Special Topics in Sociology (1-3, max. 21)Examination of current substantive topics in sociology. Content varies according to recent developments in the field and the interests of the instructor. Topics covered in courses with this number lie outside those covered by other special topics courses numbered SOC 581 through SOC 589.
Sociology^Political Sociology Political Sociology SOC 591 Political Sociology (3)Introduction to political sociology, considering the rise of the modern state, power, political organization, social movements, and other related topics.
Sociology^Field Seminar in States, Markets, and Societies Field Seminar in States, Markets, and Societies SOC 597 Field Seminar in States, Markets, and Societies (5) Hamilton, R. Pekkanen, RadnitzExposes students to theoretical and empirical debates about engagement of states with their societies and with transnational actors in their historical, political, and social settings. Topics include state formation, social change, development, state-market relations, globalization, identities, ethnicities, gender, revolutions, democratization, corruption, clientalism, civil societies, NGOs, and social movements. Offered: jointly with JSIS 597.
Music^Pre-Core Ear Training Pre-Core Ear Training MUSIC 113 Pre-Core Ear Training (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgePre-core course in musicianship. Offered: ASp.
Music^Elementary Music Theory Elementary Music Theory MUSIC 116 Elementary Music Theory (2) VLPAFor nonmusic majors. For people with no hands-on music experience. Rudiments of music; notation of time, small pitch structures (e.g., some scales, chords, rhythmic patterns), some analysis.
Music^Elementary Music Theory Elementary Music Theory MUSIC 117 Elementary Music Theory (2) VLPAFor nonmusic majors. For students who can read music, having some performance experience.
Music^Elementary Music Theory Elementary Music Theory MUSIC 118 Elementary Music Theory (2) VLPAFor nonmusic majors. For students who read music, have some performance experience, are familiar with scales, chords, intervals. Includes analysis of composition in various styles.
Music^Introduction to Music Theory and Musicianship Introduction to Music Theory and Musicianship MUSIC 119 Introduction to Music Theory and Musicianship (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeBasic elements of music theory: introduction to acoustics, major and minor scales, triads and seventh chords, keys, four-part writing, functional harmony, modes, simple forms, and jazz notation. Offered: A.
Music^Survey of Music Survey of Music MUSIC 120 Survey of Music (5) VLPAStudies in listening, with emphasis on the changing components of Western art music. Illustrated lectures, laboratory section meetings, and presentations by guest artists.
Music^The Orchestra The Orchestra MUSIC 121 The Orchestra (2) VLPADevelopment of the orchestra and its literature.
Music^The Opera The Opera MUSIC 122 The Opera (2) VLPAAn introduction to opera through selected masterworks, from Monteverdi to the present. Primarily for nonmajors.
Music^American Folk Music American Folk Music MUSIC 160 American Folk Music (5) VLPAIntroduces different types of folk music practiced in the United States. Examines how pieces, genres, performers, and consumers fit into particular socio-historical contexts as well as issues including identity politics and the roles of the media.
Music^American Musical Theater American Musical Theater MUSIC 161 American Musical Theater (5) VLPAHistorical and stylistic study of the development of the American musical theater. European roots in opera and operetta. Contributions from jazz and popular music. Selected musicals studied.
Music^American Popular Song American Popular Song MUSIC 162 American Popular Song (5) VLPAHistorical, social, and stylistic study of popular idioms from the late nineteenth century to the present. Most attention to contemporary idioms (rock, country-western, soul, hip-hop). Various facets of the industry examined to learn how they influence taste and musical style.
Music^The Concert Season The Concert Season MUSIC 185 The Concert Season (2) VLPAPerformances from the School of Music concert season, supplemented by lecture topics related to concert repertoire. Analysis of applicable musical topics appropriate for enhanced appreciation of historical and cultural contexts of works performed. Attendance at ten concerts required.
Music^Composition Composition MUSIC 191 Composition (3, max. 9) VLPAOne-hour private instruction and one-hour laboratory session each week. Intended to develop skill in creative musical expression. For composition majors only.
Music^Music, Child, and Family Music, Child, and Family MUSIC 200 Music, Child, and Family (3) VLPA CampbellStudy of music in childhood as part of socialization and enculturation of the child within family and community. Emphasis given to songs and music listening experiences provided by parents to nurture the child's musical, social, and intellectual development from infancy through middle childhood. For nonmajors.
Music^First-Year Theory I First-Year Theory I MUSIC 201 First-Year Theory I (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeIntroduction to tonal harmony and counterpoint; triadic progressions in root position; first and second species counterpoint; analysis of simple works.
Music^First-Year Theory II First-Year Theory II MUSIC 202 First-Year Theory II (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeContinued instruction in tonal harmony and counterpoint; triadic progressions with inversions; third and fourth species counterpoint; further analysis of basic forms.
Music^First-Year Theory III First-Year Theory III MUSIC 203 First-Year Theory III (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeFurther introduction in tonal harmony and counterpoint; seventh chords; modulations to closely related keys; secondary dominants; introduction to chromaticism; emphasis on analysis and writing of four-part chorales in early eighteenth-century style.
Music^First-Year Ear Training I First-Year Ear Training I MUSIC 204 First-Year Ear Training I (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore ear-training sequence for majors.
Music^First-Year Ear Training II First-Year Ear Training II MUSIC 205 First-Year Ear Training II (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore ear-training sequence for majors.
Music^First-Year Ear Training III First-Year Ear Training III MUSIC 206 First-Year Ear Training III (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore ear-training sequence for majors.
Music^Introductory Composition Introductory Composition MUSIC 216 Introductory Composition (2) VLPAFor students not majoring in composition.
Music^Introductory Composition Introductory Composition MUSIC 217 Introductory Composition (2) VLPAFor students not majoring in composition.
Music^Introductory Composition Introductory Composition MUSIC 218 Introductory Composition (2) VLPAFor students not majoring in composition.
Music^Reed-Making Techniques Reed-Making Techniques MUSIC 240 Reed-Making Techniques (1, max. 6) VLPAApplies basic reed-making principles and techniques. Individualized instruction allows students of all levels to take the course simultaneously.
Music^World Music World Music MUSIC 250 World Music (3) VLPA/I&S, DIVIntroduction to world musical traditions, including both sound and socio-cultural dimensions of music. Topics include instruments, rhythm, melody, form, composition, improvisation, music in the family and community, politics, economy, religion, and case studies of major world musical traditions.
Music^Orchestral Music Orchestral Music MUSIC 260 Orchestral Music (5) VLPAOrchestral music from its beginnings in the seventeenth century through recent developments; evolution of the symphony.
Music^Mozart Mozart MUSIC 261 Mozart (5) VLPAIntroduction to Mozart's music and to musical life in Habsburg Austria during the Enlightenment. Mozart's musical personality studied through masterpieces in all genres, with principal emphasis on listening. Ability to read music not required.
Music^Introduction to Twentieth-Century Music Introduction to Twentieth-Century Music MUSIC 262 Introduction to Twentieth-Century Music (3) VLPA StarrListener's survey of important composers and trends from Debussy through electronic music.
Music^Opera Opera MUSIC 263 Opera (5) VLPA RumphContributions of music, text, and staging; study of representative works concentrating on problems of combining these elements into a composite work of art.
Music^Sacred Music in the European Tradition Sacred Music in the European Tradition MUSIC 264 Sacred Music in the European Tradition (5) VLPASurveys European and American sacred music from the twelvth to twentieth centuries, examining the important role of music in religious worship. Considers the means composers used to make musical works sound the way they do to convey the messages of the texts through music. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 264.
Music^World Popular Music World Popular Music MUSIC 270 World Popular Music (5) VLPA/I&SA global survey of popular music, including Latin America, Africa, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and the Pacific. Emphasis on students' ability to recognize styles and to analyze the social and historical processes that have shaped them.
Music^Composition Composition MUSIC 291 Composition (3, max. 9) VLPAOne-hour private instruction and one-hour laboratory session per week.
Music^Fundamentals of Music Technology Fundamentals of Music Technology MUSIC 300 Fundamentals of Music Technology (3) VLPAIntroduction to the principles of music technology. Exploration of different categories of music software, in terms of their functionality as well as the fundamental basis of these theories.
Music^Second-Year Theory Second-Year Theory MUSIC 301 Second-Year Theory (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeFurther study of modulation and chromatic harmony; analysis of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century short forms; technical exercises; model composition.
Music^Second-Year Theory Second-Year Theory MUSIC 302 Second-Year Theory (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeMore advanced study in mid- to late nineteenth-century chromaticism and compositional style; analysis of representative works; technical exercises; model composition.
Music^Second-Year Theory Second-Year Theory MUSIC 303 Second-Year Theory (3) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore theory sequence for majors. Introduction to the theory and analysis of twentieth-century music.
Music^Second-Year Ear-Training I Second-Year Ear-Training I MUSIC 304 Second-Year Ear-Training I (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore ear-training sequence for majors.
Music^Second-Year Ear-Training II Second-Year Ear-Training II MUSIC 305 Second-Year Ear-Training II (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore ear-training sequence for majors.
Music^Second-Year Ear-Training III Second-Year Ear-Training III MUSIC 306 Second-Year Ear-Training III (0-1, max. 1) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeCore ear-training sequence for majors.
Music^Diction for Singers Diction for Singers MUSIC 307 Diction for Singers (2) VLPAApplication of basic rules of diction, enunciation, and articulation in Italian. Materials include texts from the basic vocal repertoire. Primarily for voice majors at freshman and sophomore levels; nonmajors on a space-available basis.
Music^Diction for Singers Diction for Singers MUSIC 308 Diction for Singers (2) VLPAApplication of basic rules of diction, enunciation, and articulation in French. Materials include texts from the basic vocal repertoire. Primarily for voice majors at freshman and sophomore levels; nonmajors on a space-available basis.
Music^Diction for Singers Diction for Singers MUSIC 309 Diction for Singers (2) VLPAApplication of basic rules of diction, enunciation, and articulation in German. Materials include texts from the basic vocal repertoire. Primarily for voice majors at freshman and sophomore levels; nonmajors on a space-available basis.
Music^Music Cultures of the World Music Cultures of the World MUSIC 316 Music Cultures of the World (5) VLPA/I&SNear East, Central Asia, Far East, South and Southeast Asia, Indonesia, and the Philippines. Content varies.
Music^Music Cultures of the World Music Cultures of the World MUSIC 317 Music Cultures of the World (5) VLPA/I&SMusic of Africa, Americas, and Oceania. Content varies.
Music^Music Cultures of the World Music Cultures of the World MUSIC 318 Music Cultures of the World (5) VLPA/I&SFolk and popular music in Western and Eastern Europe and the Americas. Content varies.
Music^Afro-American Music Afro-American Music MUSIC 319 Afro-American Music (5) VLPA/I&SCenters on Black music in the United States, but also clarifies the relationship of this music to the musics of other Afro-American cultures as well as to their African roots.
Music^Music in Cinema Music in Cinema MUSIC 325 Music in Cinema (5) VLPA/I&S HodgeSurveys representative film soundtracks from the past one hundred years. Examines the role of music and sound design within cinematic narrative form; explores theories of film music; and lays the groundwork for engaging film as a multimedia.
Music^Repertoire Repertoire MUSIC 326 Repertoire (2) VLPAFor music majors.
Music^Repertoire Repertoire MUSIC 327 Repertoire (2) VLPAFor music majors.
Music^Repertoire Repertoire MUSIC 328 Repertoire (2) VLPAFor music majors.
Music^History of Jazz History of Jazz MUSIC 331 History of Jazz (5) VLPAExtensive overview of important musicians, composers, arrangers, and stylistic periods of jazz history from emergence of the first jazz bands at the turn of the twentieth century through post-modern bebop era of the 1990s.
Music^Music in European Society: Antiquity to 1700 Music in European Society: Antiquity to 1700 MUSIC 332 Music in European Society: Antiquity to 1700 (5) VLPA/I&SMusic and its relationship to aspects of European culture and society - philosophy, politics, social conditions, and the visual arts from antiquity to 1700.
Music^Music in Western Culture Music in Western Culture MUSIC 333 Music in Western Culture (5) VLPA/I&SMusic in Europe and North America, drawn from classical, popular, jazz, opera, and musical theatre traditions. Emphasis on the relationship between musical works and their social, philosophical, political, and other contexts.
Music^Band Arranging Band Arranging MUSIC 334 Band Arranging (2) VLPA
Music^Jazz Arranging Jazz Arranging MUSIC 336 Jazz Arranging (2) VLPAWriting in jazz style for various instrumental combinations. Students should be able to arrange for modern jazz orchestra.
Music^Psychology of Music: Cognition Psychology of Music: Cognition MUSIC 344 Psychology of Music: Cognition (5) VLPA/I&SCritical examination of questions, designs, and conclusions of previous research in a variety of areas related to music cognition including music perception, music performance, musical development, musical affect, musical preference, social psychology, and neuroscience.
Music^Choral Conducting Choral Conducting MUSIC 350 Choral Conducting (1) VLPAOverview of choral conducting patterns. Score, voice warm-up, and intonation. Tempo fluctuation, left hand, diction, discipline. Designed for music and music education majors.
Music^Choral Conducting Choral Conducting MUSIC 351 Choral Conducting (1) VLPAOverview of choral conducting patterns. Score, voice warm-up, and intonation. Tempo fluctuation, left hand, diction, discipline. Designed for music and music education majors.
Music^Choral Conducting Choral Conducting MUSIC 352 Choral Conducting (1) VLPAOverview of choral conducting patterns. Score, voice warm-up, and intonation. Tempo fluctuation, left hand, diction, discipline. Designed for music and music education majors.
Music^Cylinders to Platters - A Survey of Recorded Music Since 188 Cylinders to Platters - A Survey of Recorded Music Since 188 MUSIC 366 Cylinders to Platters - A Survey of Recorded Music Since 188 (3) VLPAMusic as reflected through the influences of the recording industry and the development of related technologies. Examines social and artistic impacts that the recording age has brought to American and European musical cultures.
Music^Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation I Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation I MUSIC 367 Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation I (2) VLPAAddresses acquisition of crucial skills in jazz improvisation. Emphasizing strengthening inner time, control of form, and fundamental harmony while addressing motivic development through rhythmic exercises. Students engage in transcription and analysis of exemplarity solos by jazz legends.
Music^Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation II Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation II MUSIC 368 Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation II (2) VLPAAddresses skills in jazz improvisation at a more complex level. Emphasizing control of complex cross rhythms and ear training. Harmonic knowledge acquired through improvisational techniques and analysis of selections from the American Songbook.
Music^Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation III Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation III MUSIC 369 Essential Skills in Jazz Improvisation III (2) VLPAAddresses skills in jazz improvisation at a more complex level. Emphasizing advanced harmonic approaches that address extensions, altered extensions and resolutions, intervallic inventions, polytonality, chromatics, and triadic chromatics. Addresses improvisation in odd meter.
Music^Junior Recital Junior Recital MUSIC 379 Junior Recital (1) VLPAFor participants in the Bachelor of Music degree program only.
Music^Instrumental Conducting Instrumental Conducting MUSIC 380 Instrumental Conducting (1) VLPA SalzmanAcquaints the beginning conductor with beat patterns and their expressive modifications, basic rehearsal techniques, and score study.
Music^Instrumental Conducting Instrumental Conducting MUSIC 381 Instrumental Conducting (1) VLPA SalzmanAcquaints the beginning conductor with beat patterns and their expressive modifications, basic rehearsal techniques, and score study.
Music^Instrumental Conducting Instrumental Conducting MUSIC 382 Instrumental Conducting (1) VLPA SalzmanAcquaints the beginning conductor with beat patterns and their expressive modifications, basic rehearsal techniques, and score study.
Music^Ideas In Music Ideas In Music MUSIC 384 Ideas In Music (5) VLPA/I&S TaricaniExamines selected sources and compositions of music from the Western tradition (from the tenth through the twentieth centuries), in relation to the intellectual background of the periods and countries that produced them. Musical studies accompanied by assigned readings in philosophical, religious, literary, and artistic texts in addition to the primary readings in musical history.
Music^Jazz Pedagogy Jazz Pedagogy MUSIC 388 Jazz Pedagogy (2) VLPAStylistic and esthetic developments in the performance of jazz. Key musical ingredients in the evolution of jazz as an art form and the skills commensurate with teaching these. Designed for music majors.
Music^Special Topics in Music Special Topics in Music MUSIC 390 Special Topics in Music (3, max. 9) VLPA StarrTopics vary.
Music^Composition Composition MUSIC 391 Composition (3, max. 9) VLPAOne-hour private instruction and one-hour laboratory session each week.
Music^Instrumentation Instrumentation MUSIC 394 Instrumentation (3) VLPA Durand, HodgeSurvey of the basic characteristics and techniques of instruments of the orchestra and practical experience in scoring for various instrumental combinations. Also covers topics such as transcription of solo works for ensemble and basic arranging in jazz and other styles.
Music^Computer Applications to Music Computer Applications to Music MUSIC 400 Computer Applications to Music (3, max. 9) VLPAMusic workstation applications using microcomputers, music synthesizers, and analog-to-digital converters: music editing and score production, transcription, waveform and spectral analysis, and introduction to programming.
Music^Digital Sound Synthesis Digital Sound Synthesis MUSIC 401 Digital Sound Synthesis (5) VLPAIntroduction to software sound synthesis techniques. Project-based course focused on creating experimental sound compositions framed by context of the Western Art Music Tradition. Includes acoustics and psychoacoustics; virtual synthesizers; wavetable synthesis; additive synthesis; ring, amplitude, and frequency modulation synthesis; granular synthesis; and noise and subtractive synthesis. Offered: jointly with DXARTS 461; A.
Music^Digital Sound Processing Digital Sound Processing MUSIC 402 Digital Sound Processing (5) VLPAIntroduction to digital sound processing techniques. Project-based course focused on creating experimental sound compositions framed by context of the Western Art Music Tradition. Includes digital effects; delay lines; introduction to digital filtering; FIR and IIR filters; reverberation; virtual-room acoustics and sound location; time-domain transformation of sound; andgranulation and time stretching.
Music^Advanced Digital Sound Synthesis and Processing Advanced Digital Sound Synthesis and Processing MUSIC 403 Advanced Digital Sound Synthesis and Processing (5) VLPAAdvanced sound processing and synthesis techniques. Includes sound time warping; analysis-synthesis techniques; linear predictive coding; the phase vocoder; frequency-domain sound transformations; introduction to physical modeling.
Music^Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications I Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications I MUSIC 405 Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications I (3) VLPA ClevelandPrepares organ majors and other advanced organ students to play hymns in a manner that inspires congregational singing. Includes a study of hymnology from the early church to contemporary hymns of today. Explores several denominational hymns and many styles of improvisation, including baroque, romantic, and contemporary techniques.
Music^Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications II Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications II MUSIC 406 Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications II (3) VLPA ClevelandSurveys small and large choral works including anthems, oratories, Requiem Masses, and Mass settings of major composers of the sixteenth century to present day. Resources drawn from the performing ensembles library, and from area church libraries, and include a detailed study of choral styles and editions.
Music^Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications III Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications III MUSIC 407 Liturgics and Hymnology: Practical Applications III (3) VLPA ClevelandIncludes a survey of the necessary skills to run a successful music program in a church or synagogue. Provides an overview of traditional and contemporary liturgies, handbells, orchestral instruments and their use in worship and a special emphasis on the directing of children's choirs.
Music^ElectroAcoustic Music: History and Analysis ElectroAcoustic Music: History and Analysis MUSIC 410 ElectroAcoustic Music: History and Analysis (3) VLPAExamines the music of major electro-acoustic composers. Emphasis on the relationship between technological resources and compositional advances. Addresses issues raised by the diversity of approaches to musical composition; relates particular creative contributions to the historical, cultural, and technological contexts in which they originated.
Music^Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers I Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers I MUSIC 411 Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers I (2) VLPA VuGuides students through the process of experimentation while discovering and developing musical originality and striving for innovations in jazz. Students address conceptual approaches to non-idiomatic group improvisation and original composition that incorporates and fosters improvisation, and explore techniques in generating and developing building blocks of musical material and form. Offered: A.
Music^Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers II Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers II MUSIC 412 Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers II (2) VLPA VuContinuation of MUSIC 411, working at a more developed and complex level to experiment and strive for originality and innovation in jazz. Students address conceptual approaches to non-idiomatic group improvisation and original composition that incorporates and fosters improvisation, and explore techniques in generating and developing building blocks of musical material and form.
Music^Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers III Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers III MUSIC 413 Non-Traditional Improvisation/Composition Techniques for Jazz Performers III (2) VLPA VuContinuation of MUSIC 411, working at a more advanced and complex level to experiment and strive for originality and innovation in jazz. Students address conceptual approaches to non-idiomatic group improvisation and original composition that incorporates and fosters improvisation, and explore techniques in generating and developing building blocks of musical material and form.
Music^Finding an American Voice Finding an American Voice MUSIC 414 Finding an American Voice (3) VLPAInvestigation of why certain works have been received as characteristically and representatively "American" in nature, extending the inquiry concerning an "American voice" to arts like poetry and painting, along with music. Examples for study include music by composers such as Gershwin, and Dickenson's poetry, along with composers' settings of it. Instructor: Starr.
Music^The American Musical The American Musical MUSIC 415 The American Musical (3) VLPAAdvanced course in the American stage and film musical, emphasizing detailed study of representative works as totalities: Show Boat, Porgy and Bess, shows by Rodgers & Hammerstein and Sondheim, film musical starring Astaire and Rogers, and others. Contributions of composers, lyricists, choreographers, directors, and performers to development of the genre. Instructor: Starr.
Music^The Blues The Blues MUSIC 416 The Blues (3) VLPAInvestigation of the many forms, styles, and genres of music linked with the blues, and of the ways in which the blues has contributed to the shaping and essence of musical culture, from the early twentieth century to the present. Instructor: Starr.
Music^Classical Music in America Classical Music in America MUSIC 417 Classical Music in America (3) VLPAHistory of classical music composers, performers, audiences, and institutions in America, with a critical look at the situation of these groups and institutions today, in light of how they arrived at their current status, and a consideration of what the future may hold for them. Instructor: Starr.
Music^Baroque Ornamentation and Improvisation Baroque Ornamentation and Improvisation MUSIC 418 Baroque Ornamentation and Improvisation (3) VLPA TerryThe study of ornamentation and improvisation for keyboard, woodwinds, voice, and strings of selected German, Italian, French, and English repertoire from 1600 to 1800.
Music^Organ Improvisation and Service Playing I Organ Improvisation and Service Playing I MUSIC 420 Organ Improvisation and Service Playing I (2) VLPAPrepares students to improvise, especially for the church/synagogue service. Includes a brief study of hymnology, hymn elaboration, altered harmonizations, improvisation based on existing hymn tunes, interludes, chorale preludes, ornamented chorales.
Music^Organ Improvisation and Service Playing II Organ Improvisation and Service Playing II MUSIC 421 Organ Improvisation and Service Playing II (2) VLPAContinuation of MUSIC 420. Includes brief review of figured bass and functional harmony, free improvisation in simple antecedent/consequent ABA forms and more complex forms (rondo, theme, and variation), improvising partitas, interludes, improvisations based on plainchant. A survey of important improvisation texts.
Music^Organ Improvisation and Service Playing III Organ Improvisation and Service Playing III MUSIC 422 Organ Improvisation and Service Playing III (2) VLPAContinuation of MUSIC 421. Advanced improvisation: baroque improvisation techniques, fughettas, baroque praeludias and fantasias, canons, toccatas, duos, trios, and simple fugues.
Music^Advanced Jazz Arranging Advanced Jazz Arranging MUSIC 426 Advanced Jazz Arranging (2) VLPAAdvanced arranging techniques for jazz ensembles of various sizes, exploring methods employed by Duke Ellington, Gil Evans, and others. Assignments include one original arrangement each for small-combo and full-jazz ensemble.
Music^Music of Africa Music of Africa MUSIC 427 Music of Africa (3) VLPA/I&SMusic cultures of Africa. Traditional styles and more recent developments. Open to all students with an interest in the area.
Music^Music of North India Music of North India MUSIC 428 Music of North India (3) VLPA/I&SClassical music of North India, the Hindustani tradition with emphasis on the Dhrupad and Khyal styles.
Music^String Orchestral Repertoire String Orchestral Repertoire MUSIC 429 String Orchestral Repertoire (2, max. 18) VLPAIntended for undergraduate BA/BM and BM music majors. Offered: AWSp.
Music^Organology Organology MUSIC 430 Organology (3) VLPASystematic study of musical instruments, involving the history, acoustical phenomena, and physical topologies of instruments from around the world, with emphasis on non-Western music.
Music^Music of Latin America Music of Latin America MUSIC 433 Music of Latin America (3) VLPA/I&SThe music of the Spanish-, French-, and Portuguese-speaking New World countries.
Music^Pedagogy Pedagogy MUSIC 434 Pedagogy (2) VLPAPrinciples of effective studio teaching; survey and evaluation of teaching materials.
Music^Pedagogy Pedagogy MUSIC 435 Pedagogy (2) VLPAPrinciples of effective studio teaching; survey and evaluation of teaching materials.
Music^Pedagogy Pedagogy MUSIC 436 Pedagogy (2) VLPAPrinciples of effective studio teaching; survey and evaluation of teaching materials.
Music^Studio Class Studio Class MUSIC 437 Studio Class (2, max. 24) VLPAPerformance and pedagogical concepts. Topics vary. Offered: AWSp.
Music^Problems in Contemporary Music Performance Problems in Contemporary Music Performance MUSIC 438 Problems in Contemporary Music Performance (3, max. 9) VLPAAn active course examining and solving problems relevant to the successful performance of twentieth-century music. Preparation for complex rhythms, odd groupings, new notation, and extended performing techniques.
Music^Music of Indonesia Music of Indonesia MUSIC 439 Music of Indonesia (3) VLPA/I&SIncludes the traditions of Sumatra, Sunda, Java, Bali, Sunda Islands, and the Philippines. Open to students in music and to students with an interest in the area.
Music^Music in Asian America Music in Asian America MUSIC 440 Music in Asian America (3) VLPA/I&S C. SUNARDIIntroduces students to Asian American communities through examination of music and issues related to music, including migration, memory, gender, the body, tradition, and generation. Explores how Asian Americans have expressed their experiences and asserted their senses of identity through music, thereby making sense of and claiming Americanness. Offered: AWSp.
Music^Comparative Analysis and Musicianship Comparative Analysis and Musicianship MUSIC 442 Comparative Analysis and Musicianship (3) VLPAAnalysis of selected world music genres, with an emphasis on concepts and skills that are required to perform.
Music^Music and Community Music and Community MUSIC 443 Music and Community (3) VLPA S. DUDLEYAn introduction to theories and methods of community arts facilitation and community-building, including active engagement with local artists and organizations.
Music^Music of the Near East Music of the Near East MUSIC 444 Music of the Near East (3) VLPA/I&SClassical and folk musical traditions of Iran, Turkey, and the Arab world.
Music^Selected Topics in Ethnomusicology Selected Topics in Ethnomusicology MUSIC 445 Selected Topics in Ethnomusicology (3/5, max. 15) VLPA/I&SDeals with areas not covered by other courses in ethnomusicology. Content varies with different instructors.
Music^Music in American Cultures Music in American Cultures MUSIC 446 Music in American Cultures (3) VLPA/I&SCompares musical history and experience of selected American cultures that have fed into the American musical mainstream or had significant popularity on its periphery. Case studies may include African Americans, Latino/a Americans, Jewish Americans, Asian Americans, or European Americans. Considerations of social identity as well as musical styles. Offered: jointly with AES 446.
Music^Music of Southern India Music of Southern India MUSIC 447 Music of Southern India (3) VLPA/I&SClassical music of South India, the Karnatic tradition, with emphasis on the concert repertoire.
Music^Music of China Music of China MUSIC 448 Music of China (3) VLPA/I&SConfucian philosophies that relate to music, theory, scale systems, cosmology. Development of instrumental styles, vocal and dramatic regional forms from early historical periods to the present.
Music^Advanced Piano Repertoire Advanced Piano Repertoire MUSIC 449 Advanced Piano Repertoire (2, max. 6) VLPA/I&S McCabe, SheppardFor piano majors who wish an in-depth survey of major areas of the piano repertoire.
Music^Percussion Education Institute Percussion Education Institute MUSIC 450 Percussion Education Institute (2) VLPA Collier, CrusoeIntensive four-week institute focusing on techniques in percussion, timpani, and mallet performance. Intended for music educators with little or no percussion experience desiring additional training to enhance their careers as music teachers. Includes private instruction, master classes, and percussion ensemble participation.
Music^Summer Jazz Institute Summer Jazz Institute MUSIC 451 Summer Jazz Institute (1) VLPA Brockman, Collier, SealesIntensive one-week institute designed for the serious jazz student as well as for music educators. Six hours of daily instruction in jazz theory, ear-training, improvisation, arranging, as well as emphasis on rehearsal and performance techniques through sectional workshops and small group "jam sessions."
Music^Organ Pedagogy Organ Pedagogy MUSIC 454 Organ Pedagogy (3) VLPA TerryPedagogical approaches to organ techniques and performance practice; provides opportunity for practical application by means of student teaching. Offered: Sp, even years.
Music^Choral Arranging Choral Arranging MUSIC 455 Choral Arranging (3) VLPAPrimarily for choral conductors who need to modify, arrange, or compose material to suit the capabilities of specific choral groups and performance situations.
Music^Organ Repertoire: Middle Ages through Baroque Organ Repertoire: Middle Ages through Baroque MUSIC 458 Organ Repertoire: Middle Ages through Baroque (3) VLPA TerryAnalysis and performance practices of organ literature, Middles Ages through baroque period. Development of the organ as musical instrument.
Music^Organ Repertoire: Bach to Present Organ Repertoire: Bach to Present MUSIC 459 Organ Repertoire: Bach to Present (3) VLPA TerryAnalysis and performance practices of organ literature, classical period through the twentieth century. Development of the organ as a musical instrument.
Music^Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Pre-Nineteenth-Century Art Songs Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Pre-Nineteenth-Century Art Songs MUSIC 460 Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Pre-Nineteenth-Century Art Songs (2, max. 6) VLPAProfessional preparation of pre-nineteenth-century songs with a view to total artistic-musical realization in performance. Appropriate style, character, balance, phrasing, diction, and projection for vocalists and pianists.
Music^Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Nineteenth-Century Art Songs Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Nineteenth-Century Art Songs MUSIC 461 Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Nineteenth-Century Art Songs (2, max. 6) VLPAProfessional preparation of works from the literature of nineteenth-century German lieder, with a view to total artistic-musical realization in performance. Appropriate style, character, balance, phrasing, diction, and projection for vocalists and pianists.
Music^Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Twentieth-Century Art Songs Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Twentieth-Century Art Songs MUSIC 462 Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Twentieth-Century Art Songs (2, max. 6) VLPAPreparation of works from the twentieth-century repertoire of French, German, Italian, Spanish, and English songs, with a view to total artistic-musical realization in performance. Appropriate style, character, balance, phrasing, diction, and projection for vocalists and pianists.
Music^Jazz Laboratory Jazz Laboratory MUSIC 464 Jazz Laboratory (1, max. 9) VLPAForum for testing new technical skills, improvisational techniques, and jazz compositions and/or arrangements in a formal laboratory setting.
Music^Acting for Singers Acting for Singers MUSIC 465 Acting for Singers (2, max. 6) VLPAWorkshop designed specifically for the singing actor, focusing on character analysis, movement, and audition deportment skills.
Music^Advanced Jazz Improvisation I Advanced Jazz Improvisation I MUSIC 467 Advanced Jazz Improvisation I (1) VLPA Collier, SealesPerformance techniques in jazz improvisation for the advanced student.
Music^Advanced Jazz Improvisation II Advanced Jazz Improvisation II MUSIC 468 Advanced Jazz Improvisation II (1) VLPA Collier, SealesPerformance techniques in jazz improvisation for the advanced student.
Music^Advanced Jazz Improvisation III Advanced Jazz Improvisation III MUSIC 469 Advanced Jazz Improvisation III (1) VLPA Collier, SealesPerformance techniques in jazz improvisation for the advanced student.
Music^Analysis of Tonal Music: Introduction to Schenker Analysis of Tonal Music: Introduction to Schenker MUSIC 470 Analysis of Tonal Music: Introduction to Schenker (3) VLPA BernardIntroduction to the theories of Heinrich Schenker and their subsequent development; analysis of music from the common-practice period (1700-1900), with possible excursions into the twentieth century.
Music^Introduction to Atonal Theory and Analysis Introduction to Atonal Theory and Analysis MUSIC 471 Introduction to Atonal Theory and Analysis (3) VLPA BernardTheory of atonal music, including the "classical" twelve-tone repertoire. Analysis of works by Schoenberg, Berg, Webern, and others.
Music^Analysis of Twentieth Century Music, 1900-1950 Analysis of Twentieth Century Music, 1900-1950 MUSIC 472 Analysis of Twentieth Century Music, 1900-1950 (3, max. 6) VLPA Bernard, Durand, HodgeAnalytical examination of musical works of the first half of the twentieth century in Europe and the United States, with emphasis on music other than that of the second Viennese school.
Music^Keyboard Harmony and Transposition Keyboard Harmony and Transposition MUSIC 473 Keyboard Harmony and Transposition (3) VLPA TerryKeyboard harmonization from the baroque period to present; transposition of vocal and instrumental pieces to different pitch levels.
Music^Keyboard Harmony and Transposition Keyboard Harmony and Transposition MUSIC 474 Keyboard Harmony and Transposition (3) VLPA TerryKeyboard harmonization from the baroque period to present; transposition of vocal and instrumental pieces to different pitch levels.
Music^Figured Bass Realization Figured Bass Realization MUSIC 475 Figured Bass Realization (3) VLPA TerryVarious styles of continuo realization for keyboardists, emphasizing Bach cantatas, Haydn symphonies, and Mozart operas.
Music^Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries MUSIC 476 Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries (2) VLPAOpera repertoire, 1600 to the Bel Canto era (Bellini, Rossini, Donizetti); style, traditions, embellishments in Italian, French, and German arias.
Music^Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Nineteenth Century Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Nineteenth Century MUSIC 477 Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Nineteenth Century (2) VLPAOpera repertoire, the post Bel Canto era through Verdi, Puccini and verismo, and significant German, French, and Slavic repertoire.
Music^Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Twentieth Century Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Twentieth Century MUSIC 478 Advanced Vocal Repertoire: Twentieth Century (2) VLPAOpera repertoire, twentieth-century opera literature (Barber, Menotti, Bartok, Dvorak); understanding of style, character, and overall artistic and musical needs of the present.
Music^Senior Recital Senior Recital MUSIC 479 Senior Recital (1) VLPA
Music^The Anthropology of Music The Anthropology of Music MUSIC 480 The Anthropology of Music (3) VLPA/I&SAnalysis of aspects of anthropological thought influential in ethnomusicology. Critical evaluation of dominant theoretical schools and modes of explanation, e.g., evolutionist, diffusionist, historical particularist, structuralist, functionalist, symbolist, and semiotic, through detailed examination of seminal texts. Offered: jointly with ANTH 430.
Music^Choral Repertoire: Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries Choral Repertoire: Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries MUSIC 481 Choral Repertoire: Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries (3) VLPA Boers, WyersSacred and secular choral literature from the Renaissance through the early baroque, covering Europe and England. Various genres and styles of major composers, including performance practice, rehearsals, and conducting.
Music^Choral Repertoire: Eighteenth Century Choral Repertoire: Eighteenth Century MUSIC 482 Choral Repertoire: Eighteenth Century (3) VLPA Boers, WyersSacred and secular choral literature of the baroque, covering mainland Europe and England. Choral works of Bach, his predecessors, and contemporaries. Stylistic analysis and study of performance practice.
Music^Choral Repertoire: Nineteenth Century Choral Repertoire: Nineteenth Century MUSIC 483 Choral Repertoire: Nineteenth Century (3) VLPA Boers, WyersSacred and secular choral literature of the nineteenth century, covering mainland Europe and England. Analysis of accompanied and a cappella choral works by major composers with implications for conducting and programming of literature.
Music^Choral Repertoire: Twentieth Century Choral Repertoire: Twentieth Century MUSIC 484 Choral Repertoire: Twentieth Century (3) VLPA Boers, WyersChoral literature of the twentieth century, covering America, England, and mainland Europe. Various genres and styles, including score study and teaching strategies.
Music^Topics in the Analysis of American Music Topics in the Analysis of American Music MUSIC 485 Topics in the Analysis of American Music (3, max. 9) VLPA BernardIncludes close analytical study of specific repertoires of American music.
Music^Tonal Counterpoint Tonal Counterpoint MUSIC 487 Tonal Counterpoint (3) VLPA Bernard, HodgeIntroduction to tonal counterpoint through exercises in analysis and composition, focusing on eighteenth-century styles. Study of melody principles of counterpoint in two and three voices, dance forms, inventions, fugue.
Music^Special Topics in Music Theory Special Topics in Music Theory MUSIC 489 Special Topics in Music Theory (3/5, max. 15) VLPA Bernard, Durand, Hodge
Music^Composition Composition MUSIC 491 Composition (3, max. 18) VLPAOne-hour private instruction and one-hour laboratory session each week.
Music^Opera Direction and Production Opera Direction and Production MUSIC 492 Opera Direction and Production (4) VLPAPractical experience with problems of the theater.
Music^Opera Direction and Production Opera Direction and Production MUSIC 493 Opera Direction and Production (4) VLPAPractical experience with problems of the theater.
Music^Music of Japan Music of Japan MUSIC 495 Music of Japan (3) VLPA/I&SSurvey of major Japanese musical traditions. Open to students in music and East Asian area studies.
Music^Senior Thesis Senior Thesis MUSIC 498 Senior Thesis (3-, max. 9) VLPADesign and completion of an individual research project and writing of a thesis under supervision of a faculty member.
Music^Ethnographic Research in Music Ethnographic Research in Music MUSIC 504 Ethnographic Research in Music (3) Campbell, MorrisonSeminar in ethnographic research in music, with attention to the nature of participant-observation and informal interviewing suitable to the discovery of the social and cultural life of individual musicians, and communities and institutions of music.
Music^Seminar in Field and Laboratory Methods Seminar in Field and Laboratory Methods MUSIC 511 Seminar in Field and Laboratory Methods (3)Methodology of field research in ethnomusicology along with practical experience.
Music^Seminar in Ethnomusicology Seminar in Ethnomusicology MUSIC 512 Seminar in Ethnomusicology (3/5, max. 30)Deals with advanced theoretical and methodological problems in ethnomusicology, and with the relationship of ethnomusicology to allied disciplines.
Music^Music in Higher Education Music in Higher Education MUSIC 520 Music in Higher Education (3) MorrisonPhilosophical and practical issues surrounding music within the context of higher education. Topics include mission and structure of music programs, development of teaching expertise, teacher/student evaluation, academic freedom, and job opportunities. Appropriate for all graduate music students and does not require background in teaching or education.
Music^Seminar in Music and Socialization Seminar in Music and Socialization MUSIC 523 Seminar in Music and Socialization (3, max. 9)The socialization process and music, including the interaction whereby music culture is learned.
Music^History of Theory History of Theory MUSIC 526 History of Theory (3)Ancient, medieval, early Renaissance.
Music^History of Theory History of Theory MUSIC 527 History of Theory (3) BernardRenaissance, baroque, early classic.
Music^History of Theory History of Theory MUSIC 528 History of Theory (3) BernardClassic, romantic, twentieth century.
Music^Seminar in Music Cognition Seminar in Music Cognition MUSIC 530 Seminar in Music Cognition (3, max. 9)Study of research literature in cognition and music cognition, particularly as it relates to nonverbal musical experience.
Music^Proseminar in Ethnomusicology Proseminar in Ethnomusicology MUSIC 531 Proseminar in Ethnomusicology (3)Theoretical and methodological issues in ethnomusicology based on historical and contemporary major writings. Critical evaluations of works with a broad view toward developing ethnomusicological research.
Music^Opera Direction and Production Opera Direction and Production MUSIC 532 Opera Direction and Production (4/6, max. 12)Practical experience with problems of the opera theatre.
Music^Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology MUSIC 533 Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology (5)Significant ethnomusicological literature on the music cultures of Asia. Meets with MUSIC 316.
Music^Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology MUSIC 534 Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology (5)Significant ethnomusicological literature on the music cultures of Africa, the Americas, and Oceania. Meets with MUSIC 317.
Music^Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology MUSIC 535 Preceptorial Readings in Ethnomusicology (5)Significant ethnomusicological literature on the music cultures of Europe and North America. Meets with MUSIC 318.
Music^Transcription and Analysis Transcription and Analysis MUSIC 536 Transcription and Analysis (3)Study of the methodological principles of transcription and analysis, together with practical exercises in developing transcription skills.
Music^Music in Asian America Music in Asian America MUSIC 540 Music in Asian America (3) C. SUNARDIIntroduces students to Asian American communities through examination of music and issues related to music, including migration, memory, gender, the body, tradition, and generation. Explores how Asian Americans have expressed their experiences and asserted their senses of identity through music, thereby making sense of and claiming Americanness. Offered: AWSp.
Music^Comparative Analysis and Musicianship Comparative Analysis and Musicianship MUSIC 542 Comparative Analysis and Musicianship (3)Analysis of selected world music genres, with an emphasis on concepts and skills that are required to perform.
Music^Music and Community Music and Community MUSIC 543 Music and Community (3) S. DUDLEYAn introduction to theories and methods of community arts facilitation and community-building, including active engagement with local artists and organizations.
Music^Psychology of Music: Music Cognition Psychology of Music: Music Cognition MUSIC 544 Psychology of Music: Music Cognition (5)Critical examination of questions, designs, and conclusions of previous research in a variety of areas related to music cognition including music performance, musical creativity, musical affect, musical preference, social psychology, and neuroscience. Discusses the role of theory, method, and typical procedures for psychological research.
Music^Practicum in Music Instruction Practicum in Music Instruction MUSIC 551 Practicum in Music Instruction (3, max. 9)Practical application and validation of results of investigation in curriculum, music teaching and learning, performance, and theoretical studies.
Music^Advanced Choral Techniques Advanced Choral Techniques MUSIC 553 Advanced Choral Techniques (2, max. 18) Boers, WyersPractical application of technique and pedagogy related to choral music. Surveys major choral repertoire. Concurrent enrollment in MUSIC 583 required.
Music^Master's Recital Master's Recital MUSIC 559 Master's Recital (3, max. 6)Public performance for students in the Master of Music degree program.
Music^Seminar in Schenkerian Analysis Seminar in Schenkerian Analysis MUSIC 570 Seminar in Schenkerian Analysis (3, max. 9) BernardAdvanced work in Schenkerian analysis.
Music^Seminar in Serialism Seminar in Serialism MUSIC 571 Seminar in Serialism (3, max. 9) BernardAdvanced theoretical and analytical work in serialism and other nontonal systems.
Music^Advanced Topics in Computer Music Advanced Topics in Computer Music MUSIC 572 Advanced Topics in Computer Music (3) KarpenTopics vary. Offered: AWSpS.
Music^Seminar in Tonal Analysis Seminar in Tonal Analysis MUSIC 573 Seminar in Tonal Analysis (3, max. 9)Modern theoretical and analytical methods appropriate to study of western music of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, conceived independently of or in response to the work of Heinrich Schenker.
Music^Analysis of Twentieth-Century Music: 1950 - Present Analysis of Twentieth-Century Music: 1950 - Present MUSIC 574 Analysis of Twentieth-Century Music: 1950 - Present (3) Bernard, Durand, Hodge, KarpenAnalytical examination of major works of second half of twentieth century.
Music^Seminar in Theory Seminar in Theory MUSIC 575 Seminar in Theory (3, max. 18) BernardDevelopment and discussion of current student and faculty research in compositional/analytical theory and metatheory.
Music^Critical Theory of Music Critical Theory of Music MUSIC 576 Critical Theory of Music (3, max. 18)Philosophical foundations of the criticism of music, including relevant contemporary thought in the criticism of literature and the other arts.
Music^Composers of the Twentieth Century Composers of the Twentieth Century MUSIC 577 Composers of the Twentieth Century (3, max. 9) Bernard, Durand, Hodge, KarpenAnalytical examination of the work of a major composer of the twentieth century.
Music^Advanced Conducting Advanced Conducting MUSIC 580 Advanced Conducting (3, max. 9) Salzman
Music^Advanced Conducting Advanced Conducting MUSIC 581 Advanced Conducting (3, max. 9) Salzman
Music^Advanced Conducting Advanced Conducting MUSIC 582 Advanced Conducting (3, max. 9) Salzman
Music^Advanced Choral Conducting Advanced Choral Conducting MUSIC 583 Advanced Choral Conducting (2, max. 18) Boers, Wyers
Music^Keyboard and Doctoral Lecture Recital or Concerto Recital Keyboard and Doctoral Lecture Recital or Concerto Recital MUSIC 590 Keyboard and Doctoral Lecture Recital or Concerto Recital (6, max. 18)Lecture recital or concerto recital for students in the Doctor of Musical Arts in piano performance, in harpsichord performance, and in organ performance degree programs.
Music^Graduate Composition Graduate Composition MUSIC 591 Graduate Composition (*, max. 30) Bernard, Durand, Karpen
Music^Advanced Selected Topics Advanced Selected Topics MUSIC 599 Advanced Selected Topics (1-3, max. 27)Selected readings on current issues and problems in music.
Anthropology^Introduction to Anthropology Introduction to Anthropology ANTH 100 Introduction to Anthropology (5) I&SIntroduction to the subfields of archaeology, biocultural anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology through the examination of selected problems in human physical, cultural, and social evolution. Not recommended for students who have had other courses in anthropology, archaeology, or biocultural anthropology.
Anthropology^Exploring Sociocultural Anthropology Exploring Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 101 Exploring Sociocultural Anthropology (5) I&S D. HOFFMANIntroduces perspectives from sociocultural anthropology on the diversity and the dynamics of collective human life. Examines how individual lives are shaped by broader social and cultural contexts, how people make meaning, and how power relations work. Introduces ethnography as a method for documenting and understanding social and cultural life.
Anthropology^Culture and Rights: Exploring the Meaning and Practice of Human Rights Culture and Rights: Exploring the Meaning and Practice of Human Rights ANTH 150 Culture and Rights: Exploring the Meaning and Practice of Human Rights (5) I&SExamines social justice issues with the aim of obtaining deeper understanding of human rights. Analyzes historical and theoretical foundations and introduces international and regional institutions designed to implement and enforce human rights. Case studies in sovereignty, war crimes, ethnic cleansing, genocide, torture, truth commissions, and forgiveness.
Anthropology^Principles of Sociocultural Anthropology Principles of Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 202 Principles of Sociocultural Anthropology (5) I&SComparison of life ways of various non-Western and Western peoples. Introduction to basic theories and methods used in the field.
Anthropology^Introduction to Anthropological Linguistics Introduction to Anthropological Linguistics ANTH 203 Introduction to Anthropological Linguistics (5) VLPA/I&SLinguistic methods and theories used within anthropology. Basic structural features of language; human language and animal communication compared; evidence for the innate nature of language. Language and culture: linguistic relativism, ethnography of communication, sociolinguistics. Language and nationalism, language politics in the United States and elsewhere. Offered: jointly with LING 203.
Anthropology^Reading Ethnography Reading Ethnography ANTH 204 Reading Ethnography (5) I&SIntroduction to the descriptive and analytic literature of cultural anthropology. Extended examination of representative accounts of the lifeway of peoples from selected areas of the world with an emphasis on methods of observation and analysis.
Anthropology^The Cultural Animal The Cultural Animal ANTH 206 The Cultural Animal (5) I&S/NWExamination of the interaction between biology and culture in shaping human social behavior. Basic principles of natural selection, gene-environment interaction, cultural transmission, learning, and cultural evolution; application of these to various topics, including gender, violence, politics, kinship, and religion.
Anthropology^Class and Culture in America Class and Culture in America ANTH 207 Class and Culture in America (5) I&S, DIVAnthropological view of the contemporary United States with emphasis on social class. Through ethnographic readings examines education, work, political economy, working class experience and the ideology of the middle class, and relations between class and race, gender, ethnicity, language, place, sexuality, and culture.
Anthropology^The Culture Concept The Culture Concept ANTH 208 The Culture Concept (5) I&SHistory of the culture concept and its use in the field of cultural anthropology. History of its emergence in European colonial expansion and contemporary debates about its place as the central concept defining the field of anthropology.
Anthropology^Anthropology through Visual Media Anthropology through Visual Media ANTH 209 Anthropology through Visual Media (5) VLPA/I&S S. WELLANDTheories of culture and cultural variation, as seen and understood through visual media such as films, video, and photography.
Anthropology^Introduction to Environmental Anthropology Introduction to Environmental Anthropology ANTH 210 Introduction to Environmental Anthropology (5) I&S/NW S. HARRELL, D. PENAIntroduction to human/environment interactions from various anthropological perspectives. Intellectual history of anthropological approaches to environment, emphasizing the mutual interconnectedness of people and nature. Survey of evolutionary models; cultural ecology; systems approaches; indigenous knowledge; ethnoecology; nature and the state; political ecology; ecofeminism; and environmentalism.
Anthropology^Environmental Justice Environmental Justice ANTH 211 Environmental Justice (5) I&S D. PENAExamines introductory studies of environmental racism and ecological injustice in the United States and select areas of the world. Reviews environmental justice theories and methods applied to risk science, ecosystem management, biodiversity conservation, and sustainable development. Includes comparative studies of social movements for "eco-justice." Offered: jointly with AES 211/ENVIR 211.
Anthropology^Anthropology and Sport Anthropology and Sport ANTH 213 Anthropology and Sport (5) I&S H. BARKERIntroduces theories, methods, and findings of sociocultural anthropology through a focus on sport. Considers sport as linked to identities, nationalism, gender, race, class, religion, and other issues. Explores cultural rituals of sport, potentials and obstacles to sport transcending social differences, and sport's role in education, youth development, and community building.
Anthropology^Introduction to Medical Anthropology and Global Health Introduction to Medical Anthropology and Global Health ANTH 215 Introduction to Medical Anthropology and Global Health (5) I&S R. CHAPMANExplores influences of global processes on health of U.S. and other societies from a social-justice perspective. Emphasizes inter-relationships between cultural, environmental, social-economic, political, and medical systems that contribute to health status, outcomes, policies, and healthcare delivery. Focuses on health disparities within and between societies and communities around the world.
Anthropology^Identities: Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in Anthropology Identities: Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in Anthropology ANTH 228 Identities: Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in Anthropology (5) I&S, DIVAn introduction to the study of race, class, gender, and sexuality in anthropology. Through ethnographic and theoretical readings, students are introduced to the concept of identity as intersectional construction and social performance.
Anthropology^Introduction to Language and Society Introduction to Language and Society ANTH 233 Introduction to Language and Society (5) VLPA, DIV Evans, WassinkIntroduces the study of sociolects, the varieties of language that arise from differences in cultural and societal groups, often reflective of power inequalities. Raises awareness of the role that society and the individual play in shaping sociolects via the systematic observation and critical discussion of linguistic phenomena. Offered: jointly with COM 233/LING 233; A.
Anthropology^Global Feminist Art Global Feminist Art ANTH 235 Global Feminist Art (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduces feminism as a way of thinking about visual art practice in terms of social hierarchy, aesthetic form, and ideology. Explores how feminist artists working in diverse locations and cultural traditions challenge, at the local and global level, artistic conventions and representations of gender, sexuality, race, class, and nationality. Offered: jointly with GWSS 235.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Anthropology Special Topics in Anthropology ANTH 269 Special Topics in Anthropology (3-5, max. 10) I&SDelineation and analysis of a specific problem or related problems in anthropology.
Anthropology^Cultures of Global Capital Cultures of Global Capital ANTH 280 Cultures of Global Capital (5) I&SDesigned to introduce students to the study of cross-border phenomenon including global capital, migration, international philanthropy, and terrorism from an anthropological perspective. Introduces theories of globalization and the approaches anthropologists have taken in studying patterns of movement and circulation.
Anthropology^Identities: Service Learning Identities: Service Learning ANTH 289 Identities: Service Learning (3) I&S
Anthropology^Human Nature and Culture Human Nature and Culture ANTH 301 Human Nature and Culture (3) I&SComparison of various anthropological perspectives on the sources of variation in customs, values, and beliefs of human groups, including non-Western peoples and contemporary Americans.
Anthropology^Anthropology of the Body Anthropology of the Body ANTH 305 Anthropology of the Body (5) I&SSurveys classic anthropological literature examining the relationship between culture and the body. Examines Euroamerican body culture historically. Explores how the body is represented in mass media and the effects this has on everyday body ideologies.
Anthropology^The Power of Representation: Pacific Islander Voices The Power of Representation: Pacific Islander Voices ANTH 306 The Power of Representation: Pacific Islander Voices (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV M. KAHNFocuses on how Pacific Islands and Islanders are being represented by Pacific Islander artists, writers, performers, poets, filmmakers, and scholars. By creatively challenging older dominant misrepresentations in ways these individuals are fashioning new identities that transform images and identities, as well as extend the boundaries of "the Pacific."
Anthropology^U.S. Pacific Islander Contemporary Culture U.S. Pacific Islander Contemporary Culture ANTH 307 U.S. Pacific Islander Contemporary Culture (5) I&S, DIVExamines United States Pacific Islander culture as informed by Pacific history, social and cultural organization. Emphasis on understanding contemporary experience in the United States and other diaspora communities. Major themes include post-colonialism, migration, family, religion, politics, gender, education, and transnational identify. Offered: jointly with AAS 300; Sp.
Anthropology^The Anthropology of Gender, Women's Health, and Reproduction The Anthropology of Gender, Women's Health, and Reproduction ANTH 308 The Anthropology of Gender, Women's Health, and Reproduction (5) I&S, DIVExamines anthropological approaches to improving women's health by surveying women's health history, status, and participation in healthcare. Analyzes a range of health issues, including reproductive healthcare problems, women's body images and sexuality, current health policies, as related to daily structures and relationships of gender, race/ethnicity, class.
Anthropology^Native North American Societies Native North American Societies ANTH 310 Native North American Societies (5) I&S SmithTraditional cultures of America north of Mexico, emphasizing diversity of North American Indian and Eskimo societies. Origins of Native-American culture areas and language groupings; subsistence systems; levels of social organization; European conquest and colonialism; and description of representative cultures from the ten culture areas.
Anthropology^The Cultural Politics of Diet and Nutrition The Cultural Politics of Diet and Nutrition ANTH 311 The Cultural Politics of Diet and Nutrition (5) I&S A. ANAGNOSTExamines current debates within the United States about what dietary guidelines are optimal for human health; how changing conceptions of individual responsibility and political life are framing these debates; how social movements for food sovereignty are changing food practices: and how eaters define their ethics through food. Offered: AWSpS.
Anthropology^Pacific Islands Literature and Film Pacific Islands Literature and Film ANTH 312 Pacific Islands Literature and Film (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVExamines the Pacific through a detailed consideration of creative works by contemporary Pacific writers and filmmakers. Topics include cultural identity; colonialism and its effects on Indigenous peoples, land, wellness, family, and community; and the importance of knowing where you come from.
Anthropology^Peoples of Africa Peoples of Africa ANTH 313 Peoples of Africa (5) I&SSurvey of the many cultures of pre- and post-colonial sub-Saharan Africa. Appreciation of the adaptability, strength, and creativity of African peoples.
Anthropology^Ethnography, Transnationalism, and Community in Island Southeast Asia/Asian America Ethnography, Transnationalism, and Community in Island Southeast Asia/Asian America ANTH 314 Ethnography, Transnationalism, and Community in Island Southeast Asia/Asian America (5) I&S, DIV C. LOWEEthnographic exploration of the transformative processes of transnationalism in relation to identity and community formation in Southeast Asia and among Southeast Asian Americans. Experiential learning format concentrates on mini-ethnographic projects, field trips, and group presentations.
Anthropology^Southeast Asian Civilization: Buddhist and Vietnamese Southeast Asian Civilization: Buddhist and Vietnamese ANTH 315 Southeast Asian Civilization: Buddhist and Vietnamese (5) I&S C. KEYESCivilizations of Theravada Buddhist societies in Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, and Laos and in Vietnamese societies of Southeast Asia. Culture of tribal peoples who live on peripheries of these societies. Cultural transformations consequent upon the war in Indochina and resettlement of Indochinese refugees in United States. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 315.
Anthropology^Modern South Asia Modern South Asia ANTH 316 Modern South Asia (5) I&STwentieth-century history and society of Indian subcontinent. Topics include nationalism, rural and urban life, popular culture, gender, and environmental politics. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 316.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Tibetan Civilization Anthropology of Tibetan Civilization ANTH 317 Anthropology of Tibetan Civilization (5) I&SIntroduces the basic features of Tibetan society and culture, exploring how the global debate over Tibet's past, present, and future relates to contemporary concerns in anthropology, through the examination of Tibetan history, social and political organization, religion, and other cultural themes in both traditional and contemporary contexts.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Islam and Muslim Societies Anthropology of Islam and Muslim Societies ANTH 318 Anthropology of Islam and Muslim Societies (3) I&SExamines diverse expression and experiences of Islam from anthropological perspective. Considers Islam as a lived experience by emphasizing everyday lives of Muslims in context through ethnographic accounts. Covers range of issues including identity, rituals, gender, and political Islam.
Anthropology^Comparative Religion Comparative Religion ANTH 321 Comparative Religion (3) I&SAnthropological approaches to religious experience and belief with emphasis on conceptual issues such as ritual, symbolism, identity, ecstatic experience, and revitalization movements in the context of globalization. Also addresses the diversity of religious expression in American culture and how that compares with other societies. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 321.
Anthropology^Comparative Study of Death Comparative Study of Death ANTH 322 Comparative Study of Death (5) I&SDeath analyzed from a cross-cultural perspective. Topics include funerary practices, concepts of the soul and afterlife, cultural variations in grief, cemeteries as folk art, and medical and ethical issues in comparative context. American death practices compared to those of other cultures. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 320.
Anthropology^Human Rights Law in Culture and Practice Human Rights Law in Culture and Practice ANTH 323 Human Rights Law in Culture and Practice (5) I&S, DIV A. OSANLOOIntroduces the complexities of issues surrounding human rights. Examines human rights concerns through critical analyses, taking into account legal, social, economic, and historical variables. Offered: jointly with LSJ 321.
Anthropology^Gender and Sexuality in China Gender and Sexuality in China ANTH 328 Gender and Sexuality in China (5) I&S, DIV S. WELLANDExplores gender and sexuality in China's process of modernization, form the late Qing dynasty through the building of the Republic, Communist revolution, and post-Mao economic reform. Examines, through historical, anthropological, and cultural studies scholarship, the centrality of these social constructs I terms of family, sate, labor, body, and ethnicity. Offered: jointly with GWSS 328/JSIS A 328.
Anthropology^Religion, Identity, and Cultural Pluralism Religion, Identity, and Cultural Pluralism ANTH 330 Religion, Identity, and Cultural Pluralism (5) I&S, DIVThe role of religion in shaping personal and communal identity in a pluralistic society. Themes include current dimensions of American pluralism, effects of ethnicity, immigration, and electronic communication on building religious communities, and issues of conflict, violence, and reconciliation. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 329.
Anthropology^Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast ANTH 331 Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast (5) VLPA/I&SSurvey of the indigenous arts of the Pacific Northwest Coast from the Columbia River in the south to Southeast Alaska in the north. Overview of ancient through contemporary times, focusing on the historical and cultural contexts of the arts and the stylistic differences between tribal and individual artists' styles. Offered: jointly with ART H 331.
Anthropology^Social Movements in Contemporary India Social Movements in Contemporary India ANTH 339 Social Movements in Contemporary India (5) I&S P. RAMAMURTHYCovers issues of social change, economic development, and identity politics in contemporary India studied through environmental and women's movements. Includes critiques of development and conflicts over forests, dams, women's rights, religious community, ethnicity, and citizenship. Offered: jointly with GWSS 339/JSIS A 339.
Anthropology^Political Violence and the Post-Colonial State in South Asia Political Violence and the Post-Colonial State in South Asia ANTH 341 Political Violence and the Post-Colonial State in South Asia (5) I&S, DIVExamines theoretical approaches to the analysis of collective, state, and anti-state violence in post-colonial South Asia through the study of specific cases of political violence in modern India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Nepal. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 341.
Anthropology^Women and International Economic Development Women and International Economic Development ANTH 345 Women and International Economic Development (5) I&S, DIV P. RAMAMURTHYQuestions how women are affected by economic development in Third World and celebrates redefinitions of what development means. Introduces theoretical perspectives and methods to interrogate gender and development policies. Assesses current processes of globalization and potential for changing gender and economic inequalities. Offered: jointly with GWSS 345/JSIS B 345.
Anthropology^Dance/Performance Ethnography Dance/Performance Ethnography ANTH 349 Dance/Performance Ethnography (3) VLPA/I&S J. MCMAINSExplores theoretical and practical experience in dance and performance ethnography, ethnology, and oral history. Introduces theories and methods of ethnographic fieldwork, ethnographic writing, and ethnologic analysis. Focuses primarily on dance. Also discusses methods and theories applicable to other physical practices such as music, theatre, sports, and performance arts. Offered: jointly with DANCE 350.
Anthropology^Buddhism and Society: The Theravada Buddhist Tradition in South and Southeast Asia Buddhism and Society: The Theravada Buddhist Tradition in South and Southeast Asia ANTH 352 Buddhism and Society: The Theravada Buddhist Tradition in South and Southeast Asia (5) I&SReligious tradition of Theravada Buddhism (as practiced in Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand, Laos, and Cambodia). Variations in ethical orientations developed through Theravada Buddhist ideas. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 356.
Anthropology^Feminist Anthropology Feminist Anthropology ANTH 353 Feminist Anthropology (5) I&S, DIVExplores the history and contemporary practice of feminist ethnography at the interdisciplinary intersection of anthropology and gender studies. Examines how the inclusion of women, as subjects and researchers, has influenced anthropological knowledge production, and how the cross-cultural imperative of anthropology has influenced understandings of gender, sexuality, and race. Offered: jointly with GWSS 353; W.
Anthropology^Visual Anthropology Visual Anthropology ANTH 356 Visual Anthropology (3-5) VLPA/I&S S. WELLANDThe place of photography and films in ethnography; their use in the documentation and interpretation of cultural and social systems.
Anthropology^Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia ANTH 357 Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia (5) I&SIntroduces Central and Inner Asia with a multidisciplinary, comparative survey of the cultures and societies of contemporary China's Inner Asia (Mongolia, Xinjiang-Eastern Turkestan, Tibet, and Manchuria), the contemporary Muslim Central Asian republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), and the adjacent areas of Afghanistan and Iran. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 357/NEAR E 357.
Anthropology^Culture and Cognition Culture and Cognition ANTH 358 Culture and Cognition (5) I&S/NWSurveys anthropological theories and research on the relationship between language, thought, and behavior. Examines the influence of cultural inheritance on perception, classification, inference, and choice. Describes relevant cross-cultural research methods and evaluates theoretical models used by cognitive anthropologists.
Anthropology^Linguistic Ethnography Linguistic Ethnography ANTH 359 Linguistic Ethnography (5) I&SLanguage use in cultural contexts. How language reflects world view. Language use in culturally significant settings. Analyzes sets of culturally specific terms in semantic domains. Includes projects demonstrating application of theory and method to data addressing specific problems. Workshop format.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Popular Culture Anthropology of Popular Culture ANTH 360 Anthropology of Popular Culture (5) I&S L. BILANIUKAnalysis of the forces that shape popular culture. Examination of the local meanings of global trends in music, clothing, and leisure activities through case studies around the world. Students learn ethnographic methods and conduct an original research project.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Food Anthropology of Food ANTH 361 Anthropology of Food (5) I&SExplores how foods reproduce social relations, the meanings food acquires within culture, how food systems are intertwined with structures of power and economic inequality, national cuisines and restaurant cultures, the global marketing of foods, controversies surrounding GMO foods, and alternative food communities.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Tourism Anthropology of Tourism ANTH 362 Anthropology of Tourism (5) I&S M. KAHNAnthropological approaches to tourism. Debates about cultural encounters and cultural change, authenticity, economic development, social inequalities, identity, gender, ethnicity, nationality, and cultural representation.
Anthropology^Mythical Figures and Cultural Formations Mythical Figures and Cultural Formations ANTH 368 Mythical Figures and Cultural Formations (3) I&SAnthropological perspective on the social and cultural formation of a variety of mythical figures. Examines their emergence and historical specificity, cultural meaning, and social implications. Emphasizes narrative in considering how contemporary institutions and public perceptions of danger are shaped by notions of "character" and the "monstrous."
Anthropology^Special Problems in Anthropology Special Problems in Anthropology ANTH 369 Special Problems in Anthropology (3-5, max. 10) I&SDelineation and analysis of a specific problem or related problems in sociocultural anthropology.
Anthropology^Han Chinese Society and Culture Han Chinese Society and Culture ANTH 370 Han Chinese Society and Culture (5) I&S S. HARRELLThemes in the society and culture of the Han Chinese people. Concepts of self; personal interaction; family, gender, and marriage; communities and the state; religion and ritual; class, social categories, and social mobility; culturalism, nationalism, and patriotism. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 370.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Development Anthropology of Development ANTH 371 Anthropology of Development (5) I&SDevelopment refers to social, economic, cultural, political transformations viewed as progress. Studied from anthropological perspectives. Historical, social context for emergence of ideas of development. Role of development in promoting national cultures. Impact of development on individual citizenship, families, rural-urban relations, workers, business, environment.
Anthropology^Labor, Identity, and Knowledge in Healthcare Labor, Identity, and Knowledge in Healthcare ANTH 373 Labor, Identity, and Knowledge in Healthcare (5) I&S J. TAYLORPresents anthropological perspectives on provision of healthcare as a complex social phenomena. Examines division of labor, and how social groups come to occupy particular positions. Considers how knowledge and skills are gained, how they are recognized and valued, and may become sources of identity.
Anthropology^Narrative, Literature, and Medical Anthropology Narrative, Literature, and Medical Anthropology ANTH 374 Narrative, Literature, and Medical Anthropology (5) I&S J. TAYLORIntroduces anthropological perspectives on the workings of narrative in illness, healing, and medicine. Considers writings in medical anthropology alongside other genres of writing about similar topics. Readings include memoirs and fiction as well as scholarly articles.
Anthropology^Comparative Systems of Healing Comparative Systems of Healing ANTH 375 Comparative Systems of Healing (5) I&SIntroduction to the anthropological study of healing. Examines local approaches to healing, considering their similarities and differences, and addresses their place within global systems. Includes anthropological theories of healing.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Disability Anthropology of Disability ANTH 376 Anthropology of Disability (5) I&SIntroduces anthropological perspectives on disability. Considers disability as produced through the interaction of bodily impairments with social structures, political economies, cultural norms and values, individual and group identities, institutional orders, medical practices, assistive technologies, and other factors. Considers ethnographic studies of disability in international as well as U.S. settings.
Anthropology^Anthropology and International Health Anthropology and International Health ANTH 377 Anthropology and International Health (5) I&SExplores international health from medical anthropological perspective, focusing on serious health problems facing resource-poor societies around the globe and in the United States. Develops awareness on political, socio-economic, ecological, and cultural complexity of most health problems and anthropology's consequent role in the field of international health.
Anthropology^Sustainability, Resilience, and Society Sustainability, Resilience, and Society ANTH 378 Sustainability, Resilience, and Society (5) S. HARRELLIntroduction to concepts of sustainability and resilience and their relevance to environment and society in the current Anthropocene era. Understanding sustainability and resilience through ecological footprints, lessons from small-scale societies, case studies of resource management, theory of common property regimes, philosophies of environmental stewardship, and implications of climate change.
Anthropology^Subject, Person, Place: Introduction to Social Theory Subject, Person, Place: Introduction to Social Theory ANTH 380 Subject, Person, Place: Introduction to Social Theory (3) I&SIntroduces contemporary critical thinkers in anthropology. Includes works on governmentality and discipline; politics and bare life; race and recognition; gender and embodiment; and capitalism and subjectivity. Develops an understanding of how contemporary theory frames anthropology and skills in critical spoken and written analysis.
Anthropology^Junior Honors Seminar Junior Honors Seminar ANTH 399 Junior Honors Seminar (5) I&STeaches skills required to write senior Honors thesis, including evaluation of academic and scientific writing, formulation of problem, collection of bibliographic and other resources, evaluation of research proposals, and research proposal preparation. Final product is a formal thesis prospectus.
Anthropology^Qualitative Research Methods in Sociocultural Anthropology Qualitative Research Methods in Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 403 Qualitative Research Methods in Sociocultural Anthropology (5) I&S H. BARKERIntroduces qualitative research methods of anthropology, and data generated. Methods covered include interviewing, focus groups, participant-observation, discourse analysis, and use of visual materials. Addresses ethics as relevant to every phase of research. Explores methods through focus on a specific thematic topic, which varies from year to year. Offered: W.
Anthropology^South America South America ANTH 404 South America (5) I&SSurvey of anthropological research among the traditional peoples of South America. Historical background and contemporary life of cultural groups of the Amazonian Basin. Transformation of traditional lifestyles through the process of European conquest and the aftermath of colonialism. Detailed study of selected societies.
Anthropology^China's Environment China's Environment ANTH 406 China's Environment (5) I&S S. HARRELLAnalysis of contemporary environmental problems in China, including population, food, water supply, pollution, biodiversity, and environmental activism. Combines natural science and social science perspectives.
Anthropology^Global Futures in East Asia Global Futures in East Asia ANTH 407 Global Futures in East Asia (5) I&S A. ANAGNOSTExplores interlinked modernity projects in China, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan and how the education of youth figures in projects of national development and international economic competition. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 407; AWSpS.
Anthropology^Growing Stuff: Ecology, Economy, and Culture of Resource-Production Ecosystems Growing Stuff: Ecology, Economy, and Culture of Resource-Production Ecosystems ANTH 410 Growing Stuff: Ecology, Economy, and Culture of Resource-Production Ecosystems (5) I&S S. HARRELLExamines the connections between ecological, economic, and cultural aspects of local ecosystems that produce natural resources, through three case studies involving reading, writing, class discussion, and three required Saturday or weekend field trips. Case studies may include forest products, seafood, dairy products, biofuels, orchard crops, or others. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 410/ESRM 405.
Anthropology^The Culture and Politics of Food: Study Abroad in Italy The Culture and Politics of Food: Study Abroad in Italy ANTH 411 The Culture and Politics of Food: Study Abroad in Italy (8-12) I&SStudy Abroad program at the UW Rome Center focusing on the organization, politics, economy, and culture of the local food system at increasing scales of analysis: the city of Rome, the region of Lazio, the nation of Italy, the European Union, and the world.
Anthropology^South Asian Social Structure South Asian Social Structure ANTH 412 South Asian Social Structure (5) I&SExamines caste, class, and community in modern India. Transitions from colonial typology to analysis of social change, diversity, stability, and caste hierarchy in rural society. Current debates on class and community in Indian society, rural and urban, explored through themes of identity, structure, and mobility.
Anthropology^Anthropology of the Modern Middle East and North Africa Anthropology of the Modern Middle East and North Africa ANTH 413 Anthropology of the Modern Middle East and North Africa (5) I&SPresents an anthropological perspective on social/cultural aspects of contemporary Middle East and North Africa. Explores how anthropologists examine key issues in region including identity, politics, economics, religion, and conflict. Considers how ethnographic representations challenge assumptions about people's politics of region and elucidate contemporary manifestations of local, national, regional, and global power.
Anthropology^Applied and Public Anthropology Applied and Public Anthropology ANTH 414 Applied and Public Anthropology (5) I&S H. BARKER, R. CHAPMANConsiders the practical application of anthropology's methods and theories to the challenges and research needs of communities and organizations. Concentrates on a specific topic each quarter. Includes a required service-learning component that helps students connect classroom learning beyond the University.
Anthropology^Comparative Social Movements: Mexico and the United States Comparative Social Movements: Mexico and the United States ANTH 416 Comparative Social Movements: Mexico and the United States (5) I&S, DIV D. PENAHistorical, ethnographic, and theoretical perspectives in the study of Mexican-origin communities in social movements in Mexico and the United States with a focus on workers, immigrants, peasants, women, indigenous peoples, and students as forces of collective mobilization and social, cultural, and political change. Offered: jointly with CHSTU 416.
Anthropology^Indian Heritage of Mexico and Central America Indian Heritage of Mexico and Central America ANTH 418 Indian Heritage of Mexico and Central America (5) I&S, DIVIndian civilizations of Mexico and Guatemala, their origins and ecological foundations. Contemporary communities of Mexico and Guatemala, focusing on creative adaptation of pre-Columbian traditions to modern national realities.
Anthropology^Collective Memory and Violence Collective Memory and Violence ANTH 419 Collective Memory and Violence (5) I&SPresent perspectives on cultural aspects of collective memory and relationship to violence. Explores how memories shape meaning of identity and community and influence contemporary conflict. Considers representations of the past in relation to collective violence, suffering, and trauma, including genocide. Considers relationship between memory and potential for justice and peace.
Anthropology^The Social Life of Psychiatry The Social Life of Psychiatry ANTH 420 The Social Life of Psychiatry (5) I&SAnthropological perspective on social and cultural aspects of contemporary psychiatry. Explores psychiatry as a social practice, an arena for competing cultural assumptions about mental illness and treatment, and a source of diagnostic categories and interpretive methods that influence larger society. Considers how psychiatry influences and is influenced by the cultural history of Europe and the United States.
Anthropology^Belief, Ritual, and the Structure of Religion Belief, Ritual, and the Structure of Religion ANTH 421 Belief, Ritual, and the Structure of Religion (5) I&SSystematic survey of concepts, models, and theories that characterize the anthropological study of religion. Consideration of the human universal basis of religion and of diverse ways in which religions are constructed and related to social experience.
Anthropology^Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia ANTH 422 Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia (5) I&SIntroduces Central and Inner Asia with a multidisciplinary, comparative survey of the cultures and societies of contemporary China's Inner Asia (Mongolia, Xinjiang-Eastern Turkestan, Tibet, and Manchuria), the contemporary Muslim Central Asian republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), and the adjacent areas of Afghanistan and Iran. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 472/NEAR E 472.
Anthropology^Traffic Across Cultural Boundaries Traffic Across Cultural Boundaries ANTH 423 Traffic Across Cultural Boundaries (5) I&SFocuses on the movement of cultural patterns and processes across boundaries, examining the "contact zones" in colonial encounters, moving to borrowing and blendings along ethnic and national borders. Examines border crossing of immigration and diasporas. Ethnographic examples from the Americas and Africa.
Anthropology^Hunter-Gatherer Societies Hunter-Gatherer Societies ANTH 424 Hunter-Gatherer Societies (4) I&SComparative examination of human foraging societies, emphasizing ethnographic cases and socioecological analysis. Foraging and human evolution; rationality of foraging societies; population and reproductive strategies; variability in social organization and land use; power relations between the sexes; ritual and belief; contemporary status of hunter-gatherer populations.
Anthropology^Anthropology of the Post-Soviet States Anthropology of the Post-Soviet States ANTH 425 Anthropology of the Post-Soviet States (5) I&S L. BILANIUKAnalysis of Soviet and post-Soviet culture and identity. Historical transformations in Soviet approaches to ethnicity and nationality; contemporary processes of nation building and interethnic conflict. Examination of culture through the intersection of social ritual, government policies, language, economic practices, and daily life. Regional focus varies. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 427.
Anthropology^Anthropology in Urban Settings Anthropology in Urban Settings ANTH 427 Anthropology in Urban Settings (3) I&SCross-cultural examination of theoretical issues in anthropology as studied in urban places. Focuses on ethnic identity and the formation of urban ethnic groups; migration and its rural and urban consequences; family and kinship organization as an adaptation to urban complexity; the nature of urban voluntary associations; law and politics; and the developments in anthropological method.
Anthropology^Anthropological Perspectives on Ethnicity Anthropological Perspectives on Ethnicity ANTH 428 Anthropological Perspectives on Ethnicity (5) I&S, DIVAnthropological approaches to ethnicity and ethnic group relations with reference to other models including race, caste, class, regional groupings, nations, religion, and stratification. Data drawn from precolonial, colonial, and postcolonial periods.
Anthropology^Expressive Culture Expressive Culture ANTH 429 Expressive Culture (5) VLPA S. WELLANDAnthropological view of one expressive aspect of culture: plastic and graphic arts, myth and folktale, music, dance, humor and tragedy, or play and games.
Anthropology^The Anthropology of Music The Anthropology of Music ANTH 430 The Anthropology of Music (3) VLPA/I&SAnalysis of aspects of anthropological thought influential in ethnomusicology. Critical evaluation of dominant theoretical schools and modes of explanation, e.g., evolutionist, diffusionist, historical particularist, structuralist, functionalist, symbolist, and semiotic, through detailed examination of seminal texts. Offered: jointly with MUSIC 480.
Anthropology^Sociolinguistics I Sociolinguistics I ANTH 432 Sociolinguistics I (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Evans, WassinkInterrelationships between social and linguistic factors influencing variation in speech production and perception, morphology, syntax, lexicon. Considers contribution of ethnic, regional and socioeconomic group memberships to dialect differentiation and progression of language change. Nonstandard language, diglossia, pidgins, creoles, gender differences, bi- and multilingualism, ethnography of speaking, pragmatics, and language attitudes.
Anthropology^Sociolinguistics II Sociolinguistics II ANTH 433 Sociolinguistics II (5) VLPA/I&S WassinkExamines field methods linguists use in socially oriented studies of language variation and change. Includes language attitudes, study of urban dialects, syntactic variation, sampling and interview design. Discussion of issues related to recording, ethics, and analysis of large bodies of data.
Anthropology^Economic Anthropology Economic Anthropology ANTH 435 Economic Anthropology (5) I&SChief features of nonmonetary and simple monetary economics. Impact of central or metropolitan market economy and industrial technology as peripheral systems, especially of small-scale and limited monetary circulation. Development and application in anthropology of economic concepts, including Marxian.
Anthropology^Political Anthropology and Social Change Political Anthropology and Social Change ANTH 437 Political Anthropology and Social Change (5) I&SStudy of politics from different anthropological perspectives, especially processual approaches to political change. Focused examination of cultural aspects of modern state formation in local and regional contexts. Themes: colonialism and nationalism, regime and transitions, local politics and global processes, social construction of bureaucracy.
Anthropology^Pidgin and Creole Languages Pidgin and Creole Languages ANTH 439 Pidgin and Creole Languages (5) VLPA/I&S WassinkExplores aspects of the linguistic structure, history, and social context of pidgin and creole languages. Creolization as one possible outcome of language contact. Examines theories of creole genesis, similarities and differences between creole and non-creole languages.
Anthropology^Global Asia Global Asia ANTH 442 Global Asia (5) I&S S. WELLANDExplores how Asia has been constructed through transnational interactions such as imperialism, anti-colonialism, tourism, diaspora, and global capitalism. Topics include the cultural construction of similarity and difference, politics of representation, and political economy of global circulations of people and things.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Modern Japan Anthropology of Modern Japan ANTH 443 Anthropology of Modern Japan (5) I&SExamines the problem of modernity in Japan since the late nineteenth century, with emphasis on contemporary Japan. Critically addresses previous anthropological work concerning patterns of Japanese "culture." Particular focus on the influence of modern forms of power, media, and exchange in the construction of present-day Japan. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 449.
Anthropology^Politics of Representation in Modern China Politics of Representation in Modern China ANTH 444 Politics of Representation in Modern China (5) I&S A. ANAGNOSTFocuses on issues of representation and power in twentieth century China. Combines substantive information on modern Chinese society and culture with recent debates in social theory and the politics of representation. Major themes include Chinese nationalism, body politics, popular culture, and everyday practice. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 403.
Anthropology^Literature and Society in Southeast Asia Literature and Society in Southeast Asia ANTH 445 Literature and Society in Southeast Asia (5, max. 10) VLPA/I&S C. LOWEFocus on either Vietnam or Thailand. Provides students with opportunity to explore how those living in Southeast Asia have reflected on the radical social changes their societies have undergone through novels, short stories, and poetry.
Anthropology^Class and Culture in East Asia Class and Culture in East Asia ANTH 446 Class and Culture in East Asia (5) I&S, DIVExamines the nexus between culture and systems of social stratification/class in East Asia, with an emphasis on Taiwan, Korea, Japan, and China. Topics include class formation, mechanisms of social mobility and reproduction, markers of status and hierarchy, resistance, and the formation of class identity. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 443.
Anthropology^Modern Korean Society Modern Korean Society ANTH 448 Modern Korean Society (5) I&S SorensenSocial organization and values of twentieth-century Korea. Changes in family and kinship, gender relations, rural society, urban life, education, and industrial organization since 1900. Differences between North and South Korea since 1945. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 448.
Anthropology^Social Transformation of Modern East Asia Social Transformation of Modern East Asia ANTH 449 Social Transformation of Modern East Asia (5) I&S SorensenComparative study of social change in China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam since 1945. Concentration on small-scale social units in rural and urban areas under both communist and capitalist political systems. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 405.
Anthropology^Language and Gender Language and Gender ANTH 450 Language and Gender (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV L. BILANIUKSurvey of the theoretical trends, methods, and research findings on the relationship between language and gender. Focus on power relations in gendered language use. Extensive study of research based on conversational analysis.
Anthropology^Explorations in Biopower Explorations in Biopower ANTH 452 Explorations in Biopower (5) I&S S. AMRUTE, A. ANAGNOST, C. LOWEExplores Foucault's concept of biopower - power organized around life - from the perspectives of its theoretical mediations and its anthropological interventions. Looks at specific descriptions of what biopower is and ethnographic extensions of the concept to particular settings and experiences taking place within the modern state.
Anthropology^Culture, Controversy, and Change: The Case of Female Circumcision Culture, Controversy, and Change: The Case of Female Circumcision ANTH 453 Culture, Controversy, and Change: The Case of Female Circumcision (3) I&S B. DUNCANWith female circumcision and its surrounding debates as "a tool to think with," develops a number of skills: identifying stakeholders and rhetoric in loaded debates, assessing opposing arguments, critically evaluating scientific evidence, and situating controversial issues in their proper political, historical, social, and cultural contexts.
Anthropology^Women, Words, Music, and Change Women, Words, Music, and Change ANTH 454 Women, Words, Music, and Change (5) VLPA/I&S, DIVComparative analysis of use of myths, tales, music, and other forms of expressive culture to account for, reinforce, and change women's status and roles. Offered: jointly with GWSS 454.
Anthropology^Areal Linguistics Areal Linguistics ANTH 455 Areal Linguistics (3, max. 6) VLPA/I&SIssues involved in classification of languages. Systems of classification based on structure, word order, areal features. Ways in which languages may be classified for different purposes. Processes such as borrowing, vocabulary specialization, lexical change, and language death and revival.
Anthropology^Contemporary Ethnography Contemporary Ethnography ANTH 456 Contemporary Ethnography (5) I&SDiscusses several contemporary ethnographies. Focuses on what constitutes ethnography and how ethnography is done, as well as the relationship between ethnographic description, methodology, and theory. Covers a range of geographical areas, theoretical perspectives, and literary styles..
Anthropology^Ecological Anthropology Ecological Anthropology ANTH 457 Ecological Anthropology (5) I&SSurvey of anthropological research on interaction between human societies and their environments. Logic of different subsistence systems; intensification and transformation of subsistence strategies; population regulation; ecological aspects of human nutrition, disease, spatial organization, ethnicity, social stratification, conflict, and cooperation; historical roots of current ecological crisis.
Anthropology^Ethnobiology: Plants, Animals, and People Ethnobiology: Plants, Animals, and People ANTH 458 Ethnobiology: Plants, Animals, and People (5) I&S E. HUNNCulturally mediated relationships between human and natural environment studied in a comparative and evolutionary framework. How do peoples in diverse cultures recognize and name plants and animals and understand their relationship with nature? How is this traditional ecological knowledge applied in people's daily lives?
Anthropology^Culture, Ecology, and Politics Culture, Ecology, and Politics ANTH 459 Culture, Ecology, and Politics (5) I&S D. PENACritical studies of class, gender and race differences in environmental politics. The political-economic dimensions of ecological change. Contemporary environmental movements including the varieties of bioregionalism, deep ecology, ecofeminism, ecosocialism, environmental justice, and social ecology. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 459.
Anthropology^History of Anthropology History of Anthropology ANTH 460 History of Anthropology (5) I&SSources and development of leading concepts, issues, and approaches in anthropology. Findings of anthropology in relation to scientific and humanistic implications and to practical application. Main contributors to field; their work and influence. Past, present, and future perspectives, including anthropology of modern life.
Anthropology^Historical Ecology Historical Ecology ANTH 461 Historical Ecology (5) I&S/NW J. FITZHUGH, S. HARRELLExplores a global range of case studies in the historical dimension of the environment, human adaptation, and cultural change. Investigates the co-evolution of environment and culture in archaeological and historical contexts. Develops a better understanding of modern human-environmental dynamics as historically situated. In
Anthropology^Critiques of Contemporary Capitalism Critiques of Contemporary Capitalism ANTH 463 Critiques of Contemporary Capitalism (5) I&SKarl Marx inaugurated radical reworkings of both social theory and political action. Begins with some of his seminal writings, then considers the Frankfurt School, British labor theory, and postcolonial theory. Uses these readings to understand economy and subjectivity produced through the aporias of late capitalism. .
Anthropology^Language Politics and Cultural Identity Language Politics and Cultural Identity ANTH 464 Language Politics and Cultural Identity (3) VLPA/I&S L. BILANIUKTheories and case studies of the power of language and how it is manipulated. Multilingualism, diglossia. Role of language and linguistics in nationalism. Standardization, educational policy, language and ethnicity. World languages, language death and revival.
Anthropology^Critical Anthropology of Mass Culture Critical Anthropology of Mass Culture ANTH 465 Critical Anthropology of Mass Culture (5) I&SCritical overview of theories of mass culture and their relationship to current anthropological practice. Analyses of the historical interconnections among capitalism and commodity fetishism, modernity and representation, and media and consumption.
Anthropology^Anthropology Honors Thesis Anthropology Honors Thesis ANTH 466 Anthropology Honors Thesis ([1-9]-, max. 18) I&SIndividual research under the direction of a thesis adviser, culminating in a senior honors thesis. Open only to upper-class students in departmental honors program.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Education Anthropology of Education ANTH 467 Anthropology of Education (5) I&SUses a wide range of social theory and philosophy to investigate mechanisms which reproduce inequality and asymmetry in American education.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Care Anthropology of Care ANTH 468 Anthropology of Care (5) I&S J. TAYLORIntroduces the anthropology of care, with an emphasis on ethnographic studies of care practices. Considers how care practices generate patterns of relationality and visions of the human. Explores where caring happens, who is involved in care, what counts (or does not count) as deserving of care, and how politics shapes care.
Anthropology^Special Studies in Anthropology Special Studies in Anthropology ANTH 469 Special Studies in Anthropology (3-5, max. 15) I&SDelineation and analysis of a specific problem or related problems in anthropology. Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty.
Anthropology^Minority Peoples of China Minority Peoples of China ANTH 470 Minority Peoples of China (5) I&S S. HARRELLInteraction between China and the peoples of its periphery, including inner Asia, Tibet, northern mainland Southeast Asia, and aboriginal peoples of Taiwan. Emphasis on ethnicity, ethnic group consciousness, and role of the Chinese state.
Anthropology^Colonialism and Culture Colonialism and Culture ANTH 471 Colonialism and Culture (5) I&SExplores the cultural, political, and historical implications of the power to colonize. Readings include ethnographic, historical, and literary works on colonialism, nationalist responses, and postcolonial positions.
Anthropology^Case Studies in Medical Anthropology and Global Health Case Studies in Medical Anthropology and Global Health ANTH 472 Case Studies in Medical Anthropology and Global Health (5) I&SUses multidisciplinary case studies to analyze quantitative parameters of diseases; contrast the description and analytic approaches of health sciences, anthropology, and other social sciences; integrate divers disciplinary perspectives into cohesive information; organize class presentations; and apply critical thinking in approaches to complex health issues. Offered: Sp.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Science and Technology Anthropology of Science and Technology ANTH 473 Anthropology of Science and Technology (5) I&S/NW C. LOWEIntroduces the study of science and technology as social and cultural phenomena. Considers both theoretical and methodological questions. Readings include key texts from interdisciplinary field of science studies as well as selected ethnographic texts. Examples taken from U.S. society and other local contexts.
Anthropology^Social Difference and Medical Knowledge Social Difference and Medical Knowledge ANTH 474 Social Difference and Medical Knowledge (5) I&S J. TAYLORExplores relations between medical and social categories: how social differences become medicalized; how medical conditions become associated with stigmatized social groups; and how categories become sources of identity and bases for political action. Considers classifications (race, gender, sexuality, disability) and how each has shaped and/or been shaped by medical science/practice.
Anthropology^Perspectives in Medical Anthropology Perspectives in Medical Anthropology ANTH 475 Perspectives in Medical Anthropology (5) I&S J. TAYLORIntroduction to medical anthropology. Explores the relationships among culture, society, and medicine. Examples from Western medicine as well as from other medical systems, incorporating both interpretive and critical approaches. Offered: jointly with HSERV 475.
Anthropology^Culture, Medicine, and the Body Culture, Medicine, and the Body ANTH 476 Culture, Medicine, and the Body (5) I&SExplores the relationship between the body and society, with emphasis on the role of medicine as a mediator between them. Case study material, primarily from contemporary bio-medicine, as well as critical, postmodern, and feminist approaches to the body introduced within a general comparative and anthropological framework.
Anthropology^Medicine in America: Conflicts and Contradictions Medicine in America: Conflicts and Contradictions ANTH 477 Medicine in America: Conflicts and Contradictions (3) I&SIntroduction to the pragmatic and theoretical dilemmas of current biomedical practice with emphasis on social and cultural context. Case studies in technological intervention, risk management, and other health-related issues used to explore connections among patients' experiences, medical practices, and the contemporary social context.
Anthropology^Introduction to the Anthropology of Institutions Introduction to the Anthropology of Institutions ANTH 478 Introduction to the Anthropology of Institutions (5) I&S L. RHODESHistorical, theoretical, and ethnographic perspectives on the study of total institutions, with an emphasis on prisons and psychiatric facilities. Includes issues of subjection and subjectivity, institutional social dynamics, and social justice concerns.
Anthropology^Advanced Topics in Medical Anthropology Advanced Topics in Medical Anthropology ANTH 479 Advanced Topics in Medical Anthropology (3-5, max. 15) R. CHAPMAN, L. RHODES, J. TAYLORExplores theoretical and ethnographic advanced topics in medical anthropology.
Anthropology^Africa Living with HIV/AIDS Africa Living with HIV/AIDS ANTH 483 Africa Living with HIV/AIDS (5) I&S R. CHAPMANExamines the epidemiological, historical, political-economic, and social-cultural dimensions of Africa living with HIV/AIDS and the current challenges and debates in international HIV/AIDS policy and programming. Various approaches and analytical models help students grasp the complicated and multiple effects, responses, conditions, and debates surrounding the African HIV/AIDS pandemic.
Anthropology^Ideologies and Technologies of Motherhood Ideologies and Technologies of Motherhood ANTH 484 Ideologies and Technologies of Motherhood (5) I&S, DIVExamines how motherhood is culturally constituted, regulated, and managed within various ideological and technological milieus. Uses ethnographies from anthropology and case studies from feminist legal theory. Topics include slave mothers, surrogate mothers, lesbian mothers, transracial mothers, co-mothers, teen mothers.
Anthropology^Cultures and Politics of Environmental Justice Cultures and Politics of Environmental Justice ANTH 487 Cultures and Politics of Environmental Justice (5) I&S, DIV D. PENAComparative survey of environmental justice movements in the world with focus on critical studies of environmental racism, risk, and sustainable development. Provides theoretical knowledge and research methods incorporating the study of equity and autonomy in environmental impact and risk assessment and other aspects of environmental policy politics. Offered: jointly with AES 487.
Anthropology^Agroecology Agroecology ANTH 488 Agroecology (5) I&S/NW D. PENACross-cultural survey of agroecological research methods, theoretical problems, policy issues, and ethical debates. Local knowledge and ethnoscientific bases of alternative agriculture. Comparative political ecology of agroecosystems with a focus on indicators of social equity and ecological sustainability.
Anthropology^Anthropology Practicum Anthropology Practicum ANTH 489 Anthropology Practicum (2-9, max. 15)Faculty-supervised internships, either on or off campus, in organizations utilizing anthropological skills in nonacademic settings. Settings may include museums, academic journals, social service or other governmental agencies, and private nonprofit service agencies.
Anthropology^Honors Colloquium Honors Colloquium ANTH 491 Honors Colloquium (2, max. 12) I&SIntroduction to anthropological research. Students read original articles and papers and discuss them with authors. Research presenters include department faculty, visiting faculty, and advanced graduate students.
Anthropology^Advanced Problems in Ethnology Advanced Problems in Ethnology ANTH 495 Advanced Problems in Ethnology (3-5, max. 10) I&SCurrent problems in ethnology. Seminar format.
Anthropology^Domesticating International Human Rights: Perspectives on U.S. Asylum and Refugee Law Domesticating International Human Rights: Perspectives on U.S. Asylum and Refugee Law ANTH 497 Domesticating International Human Rights: Perspectives on U.S. Asylum and Refugee Law (5) I&S, DIV A. OSANLOOExamines the creation, production, and proliferation of law and legal categories relating to the status of refugees and asylum-seekers in the United States. Integrates anthropological perspectives of law's ability to create meaning in the examination of deeper implications of asylum and refugee law in American society. Offered: jointly with LSJ 425.
Anthropology^Women's Rights and Politics in Islamic Society Women's Rights and Politics in Islamic Society ANTH 498 Women's Rights and Politics in Islamic Society (5) I&S, DIV A. OSANLOOHuman rights theory with women's legal rights and practice within context of the Islamic state. Introduction to debates regarding universality of human rights through examination of women's rights in Muslim context. Considers journalistic notions of homogeneity among Muslims, political nature of the Islamic state, and its mobilization of human rights. Offered: jointly with LSJ 421.
Anthropology^Preceptorial Reading Preceptorial Reading ANTH 500 Preceptorial Reading (6)For beginning graduate students who have not had adequate training in the problems, principles, and methods involved in the analysis and comparison of social and cultural systems. Not open to graduate students in the sociocultural anthropology program.
Anthropology^Preceptorial Reading in Linguistic Anthropology Preceptorial Reading in Linguistic Anthropology ANTH 503 Preceptorial Reading in Linguistic Anthropology (6)For beginning graduate students who have not had prior training in the problems, principles, and methods involved in linguistic anthropology. See also course description for ANTH 203. Not open to graduate students in the linguistics program.
Anthropology^Current Issues in Sociocultural Anthropology Current Issues in Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 507 Current Issues in Sociocultural Anthropology (2)Biweekly presentations by participants and guest lecturers of current literature and ongoing research in topics pertaining to social, cultural, and linguistic anthropology.
Anthropology^Current Issues in Sociocultural Anthropology Current Issues in Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 508 Current Issues in Sociocultural Anthropology (2)Biweekly presentations by participants and guest lecturers of current literature and ongoing research in topics pertaining to social, cultural, and linguistic anthropology.
Anthropology^Sociocultural Anthropology Problem Paper Sociocultural Anthropology Problem Paper ANTH 509 Sociocultural Anthropology Problem Paper (4)All first-year graduate students in sociocultural anthropology select a topic for independent research, conduct that research, and prepare a paper of about 25-50 pages on the topic chosen.
Anthropology^Seminar on North American Indians Seminar on North American Indians ANTH 510 Seminar on North American Indians (3)Advanced comparative treatment of selected aspects of the Indian cultures and societies of North America.
Anthropology^Regional Seminar Regional Seminar ANTH 514 Regional Seminar (3-5, max. 15)Comparative treatment of selected aspects of cultures and societies of a particular region or area.
Anthropology^Rethinking Area Studies Rethinking Area Studies ANTH 516 Rethinking Area Studies (5) C. LOWE"Area study" is critiqued for its sources of funding, relationship to governmentality, and for ignoring other forms of global linkage in its particular framing of cultural, social, and political connectivity. Designed for graduate students conducting research on, in, or across such an "area." Attempts to rethink regions.
Anthropology^Seminar on South Asia Seminar on South Asia ANTH 517 Seminar on South Asia (3)Advanced analysis of selected problems in South Asian ethnology and social structure.
Anthropology^Advanced Qualitative Methods in Anthropology and Public Health Advanced Qualitative Methods in Anthropology and Public Health ANTH 518 Advanced Qualitative Methods in Anthropology and Public Health (5)
Anthropology^Advanced Qualitative Methods in Anthropology and Public Health Advanced Qualitative Methods in Anthropology and Public Health ANTH 519 Advanced Qualitative Methods in Anthropology and Public Health (5) J. PFEIFFERProvides students with both a theoretical foundation in qualitative approaches to research in anthropology and public health and in-depth training in qualitative data management, analysis, interpretation, and presentation. Focuses on how to frame research questions, design, appropriate research strategies that incorporate qualitative methods, and analyze data. Offered: jointly with G H 538/HSERV 521; Sp, even years.
Anthropology^Seminar on the Anthropological Study of Religion Seminar on the Anthropological Study of Religion ANTH 521 Seminar on the Anthropological Study of Religion (3, max. 9)Advanced seminar in the anthropological study of religion designed for students who have a background in the theory and applications of theory developed in the anthropological study of religion. Seminar topics vary each quarter.
Anthropology^Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia ANTH 522 Peoples and Cultures of Central and Inner Asia (5)Offered: jointly with JSIS D 572/NEAR E 572.
Anthropology^Seminar on Religious and Political Violence Seminar on Religious and Political Violence ANTH 523 Seminar on Religious and Political Violence (5) RobinsonEmploys ethnographic studies and anthropological theory to examine the relationships between culture and power in the analysis of religious and political violence. Topics include modernity; secularisms and fundamentalisms; ritual, sacrifice, and martyrdom; law, rights, and subject-making. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 523.
Anthropology^Seminar in Culture Processes Seminar in Culture Processes ANTH 525 Seminar in Culture Processes (3, max. 6)The concept of process and its application to the study of culture.
Anthropology^Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism ANTH 526 Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism (3/5) RobinsonExamines political Islam as a modern phenomenon produced at the intersections between localized and globalized political cultures and between political, religious, and social authority. Focuses on anthropological studies to examine how Islamic publics produce moral judgments about political practices. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 526.
Anthropology^Ethnicities, Nations, and Cultural Identities Ethnicities, Nations, and Cultural Identities ANTH 527 Ethnicities, Nations, and Cultural Identities (3)Exploration of how cultural differences have been represented in ethnic and national narratives and how these narratives have shaped identities and social relations.
Anthropology^Gender and Sexuality in China Gender and Sexuality in China ANTH 528 Gender and Sexuality in China (5) S. WELLANDExplores gender and sexuality in China's process of modernization, form the late Qing dynasty through the building of the Republic, Communist revolution, and post-Mao economic reform. Examines, through historical, anthropological, and cultural studies scholarship, the centrality of these social constructs I terms of family, sate, labor, body, and ethnicity. Offered: jointly with GWSS 528/JSIS A 528.
Anthropology^Dialectology Dialectology ANTH 530 Dialectology (3)The principles of dialect deviation as related to linguistic structure and usage.
Anthropology^Sociolinguistics I Sociolinguistics I ANTH 532 Sociolinguistics I (5) Evans, WassinkExamines social variation in the phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicon of languages and dialects. Includes nonstandard language, diglossia, pidgins and creoles, gender differences, bi- and multilingualism, ethnography of speaking, and language attitudes.
Anthropology^Law, Liberalism, and Modernity Law, Liberalism, and Modernity ANTH 533 Law, Liberalism, and Modernity (5)Examines relationships between law, culture, and power through post-structuralist theories that consider subjectivity, agency, and identity. Explores connections between modern liberal law and the body, possessive individualisms, and discourses of rights. Topics include rights-talk, globalization, biopolitics, subject-making, modern nation-states, the rule of law, neo-liberalism, and legal cultures.
Anthropology^Research Issues in Demography and Population Studies Research Issues in Demography and Population Studies ANTH 535 Research Issues in Demography and Population Studies (1-2, max. 7)Interdisciplinary seminar on current research issues in demography and population studies. Critical analysis and discussion of readings drawn from anthropological, economic, geographic, and sociological approaches. Offered: AWSp.
Anthropology^Seminar in Visual Anthropology Seminar in Visual Anthropology ANTH 536 Seminar in Visual Anthropology (3-5)Significance of anthropological cinema and photography placed in historical perspective. Screening of films to determine the role of the anthropologist as filmmaker, as well as the role of the filmmaker as anthropologist.
Anthropology^Political Anthropology and Law Political Anthropology and Law ANTH 537 Political Anthropology and Law (3, max. 6)Seminar on special topics in politics and law and their interrelationships.
Anthropology^Social Movements in Contemporary India Social Movements in Contemporary India ANTH 539 Social Movements in Contemporary India (5) P. RAMAMURTHYCovers issues of social change, economic development, and identity politics in contemporary India studied through environmental and women's movements. Includes critiques of development and conflicts over forests, dams, women's rights, religious community, ethnicity, and citizenship. Offered: jointly with GWSS 539/JSIS A 531.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Place Anthropology of Place ANTH 540 Anthropology of Place (5) M. KAHN, D. PENAExplores a variety of ways that "place" has been studied and theorized. Attention paid to places as they are sensed, inscribed, practiced, narrated, scripted, created, and reclaimed. "Place" also discussed in relation to issues of the environment, travel, diaspora, race, class, and gender.
Anthropology^Cultural Aspects of International Development Cultural Aspects of International Development ANTH 541 Cultural Aspects of International Development (3)Emergence of development as an aspect of late colonialism and the decolonization process. Ways in which development came to visualize social change in sectoral terms like rural land use, cities, and education, while objectifying people in target groups. Relationships between development and modernity, and development and globalization.
Anthropology^Seminar in Anthropology and Political Theory Seminar in Anthropology and Political Theory ANTH 543 Seminar in Anthropology and Political Theory (5)Examines the role of political theory in contemporary anthropology. Designed to work through particular thinkers or constellations of thought that inform anthropological thinking today. Content dependent upon instructor, but may include such topics as Marx, Weber, and Durkheim; Foucault, the Anthropology of Reason; and Frankfort School.
Anthropology^Dance Performance Ethnography Dance Performance Ethnography ANTH 549 Dance Performance Ethnography (3) McMainsTheoretical and practical experience in dance and performance ethnography, ethnology, and oral history. Introduces theories and methods of ethnographic fieldwork, ethnographic writing, and ethnologic analysis. Focuses on dance methods and theories. Also discusses methods and theories applicable to other physical practices such as music, theatre, sports, and performance art. Offered: jointly with DANCE 550; W.
Anthropology^Field Techniques in Ethnography Field Techniques in Ethnography ANTH 550 Field Techniques in Ethnography (5)Techniques of collecting, ordering, and utilizing ethnographic data in the field. Problems of rapport, elicitation, observation, interpretation, and ethics.
Anthropology^Research Design Research Design ANTH 551 Research Design (5)Focuses on the basic components, format, and writing style of grant proposals. Works through various stages of proposal writing, including titles, abstracts, introduction, theoretical orientations, significance, methodology, data analysis, etc. Discusses funding sources, human subjects reviews, and preparing budgets.
Anthropology^Practicum in Ethnographic Research Practicum in Ethnographic Research ANTH 552 Practicum in Ethnographic Research (3)Techniques of data recording, analysis, and writing for the field ethnographer. Not recommended for non-anthropology graduate students.
Anthropology^The Evolution of the Family The Evolution of the Family ANTH 556 The Evolution of the Family (3)Biological evolution of species-specific behaviors and forms of sociality linked to human mating, reproduction, and parenting. Cultural evolution of human systems of kinship and marriage as fitness-maximizing adaptations to a wide range of habitats.
Anthropology^Seminar in Language and Culture Seminar in Language and Culture ANTH 559 Seminar in Language and Culture (3, max. 9)Theoretical and methodological problems in language and culture.
Anthropology^Discourse and Culture Discourse and Culture ANTH 560 Discourse and Culture (5)Exploration of discourse and narrative as culturally constitutive activities. Critical examination of the social implications of cultural variation in discourse. Techniques of discourse analysis in anthropological research.
Anthropology^Seminar in Methods and Theories Seminar in Methods and Theories ANTH 561 Seminar in Methods and Theories (3, max. 9)
Anthropology^Clinically Applied Anthropology Clinically Applied Anthropology ANTH 562 Clinically Applied Anthropology (3)Anthropology as it relates to interdisciplinary delivery of culturally relevant healthcare. Cultural variation in illness beliefs and behavior, types of healing practices, illness prevention, social support networks.
Anthropology^Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 565 Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology (5)First core-course sequence for the beginning graduate student in sociocultural anthropology in which the development of theory is analyzed and emphasis is placed on the relation between theory and a growing body of ethnographic data.
Anthropology^Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 566 Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology (5)Second core-course sequence for the beginning graduate student in sociocultural anthropology in which the development of theory is analyzed and emphasis is placed on the relation between theory and a growing body of ethnographic data.
Anthropology^Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 567 Theory of Sociocultural Anthropology (5)Third core-course sequence for the beginning graduate student in sociocultural anthropology in which the development of theory is analyzed and emphasis is placed on the relation between theory and a growing body of ethnographic data.
Anthropology^Special Topics in Sociocultural Anthropology Special Topics in Sociocultural Anthropology ANTH 569 Special Topics in Sociocultural Anthropology (3-5, max. 15)Delineation and analysis of a specific topic or set of related topics in sociocultural anthropology.
Anthropology^Environmental Anthropology Environmental Anthropology ANTH 570 Environmental Anthropology (5)Current issues in the study of human environment interaction from a cross-cultural perspective: ecological adaptation and maladaptation; ethnoecology and indigenous knowledge; anthropogenic environmental change; political ecology of "development;" interrelations of cultural and biological diversity; conflicts over indigenous land use and property rights, environmental justice, resource conservation, and sustainability.
Anthropology^Environmental Anthropology Research Methodology Colloquium Environmental Anthropology Research Methodology Colloquium ANTH 572 Environmental Anthropology Research Methodology Colloquium (2, max. 10)Environmental anthropology research methodology and practice. Presentations by faculty and advanced students, hands-on exercises, and extensive discussion. Students at various stages in the program learn practical details of current methods. Limited to environmental anthropology PhD students.
Anthropology^Current Issues in Environmental Anthropology Current Issues in Environmental Anthropology ANTH 573 Current Issues in Environmental Anthropology (2, max. 10)Presentation and discussion of current research and scholarly literature in environmental anthropology and related fields.
Anthropology^Culture, Society, and Genomics Culture, Society, and Genomics ANTH 574 Culture, Society, and Genomics (3) B. MCGRATHExamines social and cultural issues of human genome sequencing and control of genetic expression. Attitudes and behaviors toward health, illness, and disability are studied using historical, contemporary, and cross-cultural case study material. Offered: jointly with NURS 582/PHG 521; Sp.
Anthropology^Cultural Construction of Illness: Seminar in Medical Anthropology Cultural Construction of Illness: Seminar in Medical Anthropology ANTH 575 Cultural Construction of Illness: Seminar in Medical Anthropology (5)Historical and comparative examination of depression, neurasthenia, somatization, hypochondriasis, and hysteria. Anthropology of psychosomatics and psychiatry, including cultural analysis of selected biomedical, indigenous folk medical, and popular common-sense conceptualizations of illness.
Anthropology^Special Topics in the Anthropology of Institutions Special Topics in the Anthropology of Institutions ANTH 578 Special Topics in the Anthropology of Institutions (5)Explores theoretical issues.
Anthropology^Presenting Research Effectively Presenting Research Effectively ANTH 580 Presenting Research Effectively (2)Designed to help advanced graduate students develop the ability to present research projects effectively in a variety of formats relevant to the academic job-search process (c.v., job letter, interview, etc). Faculty and alumni speakers share information, advice, and guidance regarding the job-search and the various paths toward meaningful employment.
Anthropology^Dissertation Writing Dissertation Writing ANTH 581 Dissertation Writing (3)Students experiment with different styles of anthropological writing. They apply writing techniques and styles to their own material. Students peer review for one another.
Anthropology^Africa Living with HIV/AIDS Africa Living with HIV/AIDS ANTH 583 Africa Living with HIV/AIDS (5)Examines the epidemiological, historical, political-economic, and social-cultural dimensions of Africa living with HIV/AIDS and the current challenges and debates in international HIV/AIDS policy and programming. Various approaches and analytical models help students grasp the complicated and multiple effects, responses, conditions, and debates surrounding the African HIV/AIDS pandemic.
Anthropology^Ways of Speaking Ways of Speaking ANTH 584 Ways of Speaking (5)Theory and literature of the ethnography of communication, with special emphasis on the descriptive-comparative approach to culturally patterned styles of communicative conduct. Offered: jointly with COM 584.
Anthropology^Effective Teaching of Anthropology Effective Teaching of Anthropology ANTH 599 Effective Teaching of Anthropology (1)Class required of all graduate students who accept teaching assistantships: instruction in teaching methods and issues, e.g., professional ethics, preparing and delivering lectures, leading discussion groups, test writing and grading, diversity in the classroom.
Art^Narratives in Art and Design Narratives in Art and Design ART 101 Narratives in Art and Design (5) VLPAIntroduces the practice of art and design through active participation in the space, activities, and resources of the Henry Art Gallery. Develops knowledge of the working methods and accomplishments of artists and designers and helps students translate conceptual ideas into creative solutions.
Art^Introduction to Three-Dimensional Art and Design Introduction to Three-Dimensional Art and Design ART 124 Introduction to Three-Dimensional Art and Design (5) VLPAIntroduces three-dimensional concepts and a critical, formal vocabulary through exploration of the dependent relationship of visual, physical, and experimental principles involved in created three-dimensional art. Emphasizes exposure to a variety of physical materials, processes, and diverse approaches to designing and solving assignments and investigations.
Art^Topics in Studio Art Topics in Studio Art ART 126 Topics in Studio Art (5) VLPAStudio-based class introducing students, through particular studio practice of individual instructors, to methods of visual awareness, principles of organization, and approaches to visual and conceptual observation. Relationship between art history and contemporary art practice. Artistic medium in each class varies with instructor expertise.
Art^Alternative Approaches to Art and Design Alternative Approaches to Art and Design ART 131 Alternative Approaches to Art and Design (5, max. 20) VLPAPresentation of process through which artists discover and translate ideas, feelings, and concerns into images or objects. Use of a wide variety of methods and approaches, from traditional to technological, to promote visual expression. Discussion and critiques leading toward better understanding the creative process.
Art^Concepts in Three-dimensional Art Concepts in Three-dimensional Art ART 134 Concepts in Three-dimensional Art (5) VLPAExploration, study, and application of thematic concepts not generally associated with traditional three-dimensional art forms. Investigation of themes such as installation, performance, public, and socio-political art.
Art^Basic Photography Basic Photography ART 140 Basic Photography (5) VLPAIntroduces theory, techniques, and processes of still photography in an artistic context. Emphasizes photography's creative potential.
Art^Introduction to Drawing Introduction to Drawing ART 190 Introduction to Drawing (5) VLPABuilds basic drawing skills, develops understanding of primary concepts which relate to drawing and develops an understanding of the grammar or syntax of two-dimensional language. Students move beyond their current knowledge and abilities and link new skills, concepts, and understandings to creative expressing.
Art^Color Studies Studio Color Studies Studio ART 191 Color Studies Studio (5) VLPA LinExamination of color as a distinct visual phenomenon with investigations of its practical, theoretical, and illusionary aspects. Employs various media and materials in exercises and compositions that demonstrate properties of color structure, symbolism, and perception and the potential application to art and design.
Art^Introduction to Ceramics: Handbuilding Introduction to Ceramics: Handbuilding ART 201 Introduction to Ceramics: Handbuilding (5) VLPAIntroduces a variety of ceramic handbuilding and surface processes with an emphasis on problem solving and self-expression. Includes examination of contemporary sculpture in clay.
Art^Introduction to Ceramics: Wheel Throwing Introduction to Ceramics: Wheel Throwing ART 202 Introduction to Ceramics: Wheel Throwing (5) VLPAIntroduces wheel throwing and glazing as a means to explore functional and conceptual considerations with clay in a contemporary context and art practice.
Art^Introduction to Weaving Introduction to Weaving ART 226 Introduction to Weaving (5) VLPAExplores the structure of two- and three-dimensional textile forms. Students work with floor looms, computer-aided looms, as well as working directly with materials.
Art^Introduction to Surface Introduction to Surface ART 227 Introduction to Surface (5) VLPABasic techniques of dying, printing, and embellishing, with emphasis on their conceptual uses in art making.
Art^Introduction to Glass: Flame-Working Introduction to Glass: Flame-Working ART 232 Introduction to Glass: Flame-Working (5) VLPAIntroduces the materials of glass and its applications in the fine arts, Examines historical, technical, and contemporary practices involved in the practice and process of flame-working.
Art^Introduction to Glass: Kiln-Forming Introduction to Glass: Kiln-Forming ART 233 Introduction to Glass: Kiln-Forming (5) VLPAIntroduces the materials of glass and its applications in the fine arts. Examines historical, technical, and contemporary practices involved in the practice of kiln-firing.
Art^History of Public Art and Public Space History of Public Art and Public Space ART 234 History of Public Art and Public Space (5) VLPA YoungSurvey of the melding of public art, architecture, and landscape architecture through the ages, starting with Stonehenge, the Pyramids, and Gothic cathedrals, and ending with contemporary earthworks, public art, and twenty-first century performance art.
Art^Intermediate Photomedia I Intermediate Photomedia I ART 240 Intermediate Photomedia I (5) VLPAIncludes studio projects examining the expressive and conceptual uses of alternative photographic materials and techniques. May include and introduction to photography, large format, and studio lighting.
Art^Intermediate Photomedia II Intermediate Photomedia II ART 241 Intermediate Photomedia II (5) VLPAIntroduces the creative use of photographic digital workflow in the processing, cataloging, and printing of camera generated digital imaging. Examines a variety of manipulations and transformation of both photographic and non-photographic imagery, involving multiple programs, procedures, and hardware (Macintosh platform).
Art^Intermediate Photomedia III Intermediate Photomedia III ART 242 Intermediate Photomedia III (5) VLPACovers topics in digital imaging, including specialized output, interactive presentations, the moving image, and web-based works. Emphasizes creative exploration of both software and hardware tools and the possibilities of integration with other art media.
Art^Concepts in Printmaking Concepts in Printmaking ART 245 Concepts in Printmaking (5) VLPAIntroduction to contemporary printing methods such as monotype, monoprint, stencil, and photocopy. Survey of historical and current approaches to the art of printmaking.
Art^Works on Paper/Monotype Works on Paper/Monotype ART 246 Works on Paper/Monotype (5) VLPAIntroduces contemporary imaging methods, expands traditional drawing methods, and encourages relationship of content to structure. Introduces relationship of printmaking and painting to drawing through monotype methods.
Art^Water-Soluble Media Water-Soluble Media ART 259 Water-Soluble Media (5, max. 15) VLPA
Art^Introduction to Contemporary Art for Inderdisciplinary Practice Introduction to Contemporary Art for Inderdisciplinary Practice ART 260 Introduction to Contemporary Art for Inderdisciplinary Practice (5) VLPAIntroduction to recurring themes and practices in the visual arts. Moves beyond medium-based categories, surveying a diverse range of issues that motivate artists and create content in contemporary art. Examines the importance and influence of the visual arts in the larger context of contemporary culture and society.
Art^Introduction to Sculpture I Introduction to Sculpture I ART 272 Introduction to Sculpture I (5) VLPA TaylorIntroduces three dimensional concepts in the production of art and a critical, formal vocabulary in the pursuit of individual expression. Uses a variety of techniques and processes including mold making and casting in the creation of sculpture in the forms of multiples, series, narrative, progressions, and identity.
Art^Introduction to Sculpture II Introduction to Sculpture II ART 273 Introduction to Sculpture II (5) VLPA LynnIntroduces understanding the specific concepts and skills needed to construct and create structure driven in wood, steel, plastic, glass, rubber, fabric, and found object. Explores issues of materiality, form, object, scale, and connection.
Art^Media, Time, and Technology Arts Media, Time, and Technology Arts ART 280 Media, Time, and Technology Arts (5) VLPADevelops a "new genre" attitude toward exploration and research in contemporary visual arts, based on computer/ human interface and electronic technology. Includes performance art, environmental art, sound art, light art, video art, interactive installation, kinetic art, conceptual art.
Art^Beginning Drawing: The Figure Beginning Drawing: The Figure ART 290 Beginning Drawing: The Figure (5) VLPAIntroduction to the human figure as historically traditional subject matter as well as an important component in self expression. Covers proportion, foreshortening, and composition.
Art^Beginning Drawing Topics Beginning Drawing Topics ART 291 Beginning Drawing Topics (5) VLPARevolving topics in the study of drawing at the beginning level.
Art^Beginning Painting Beginning Painting ART 292 Beginning Painting (5, max. 10) VLPABeginning oil painting.
Art^Intermediate Surface Design Studio Intermediate Surface Design Studio ART 327 Intermediate Surface Design Studio (5, max. 10) VLPAExplores intermediate techniques used in the basic fiber media, surface design. Covers pattern development, expanded scale, visual clarity, and conceptual depth.
Art^Intermediate Weaving Intermediate Weaving ART 328 Intermediate Weaving (5, max. 15) VLPAExplores more advanced techniques used in the basic fiber media, weaving and surface design. Technical focus of each class varies. Covers pattern development, expanded scale, visual clarity, and conceptual depth.
Art^Topics in Fiber Art Topics in Fiber Art ART 329 Topics in Fiber Art (5, max. 15) VLPAExplores a range of special topics in fibers, including non-traditional materials and processes and interdisciplinary areas of interest within the field, while offering specific technical, hands-on training when appropriate. Emphasizes the development of the thematic content of the individual's work.
Art^History of Textiles History of Textiles ART 330 History of Textiles (5) VLPAOverview of Western textiles from Coptic tapestry through industrialization. Discussion of textiles not only in aesthetic terms but also as cultural documents arising from, and reflecting, a broad range of societal pressures and concerns. Special topics in contemporary issues and non-Western textiles with emphasis on holdings in the University collection.
Art^Intermediate Sculpture Intermediate Sculpture ART 332 Intermediate Sculpture (5, max. 15) VLPAStudio practice focusing on sculptural installation in architectural, urban, and natural settings; foundry, forging, and advanced fabrications; and movement, kinetics, and interaction.
Art^New Materials and Processes in Glass New Materials and Processes in Glass ART 333 New Materials and Processes in Glass (5, max. 15) VLPAExplores the process through which artists discover and translate ideas, feelings, and concerns into images or objects. Investigations include various glass forming methodologies and material properties. Topics rotate and may include mold-making, kiln casting, photo processes, mixed medial, cold fabrication, enamels, cold-working, hot glass practices, and sculptural applications.
Art^Public/Professional Art Issues Public/Professional Art Issues ART 334 Public/Professional Art Issues (5, max. 15) VLPA YoungTopics vary, centering on issues of public art and professional practices.
Art^Metal Casting Metal Casting ART 335 Metal Casting (5, max. 15) VLPAIntroduction to foundry techniques as applied to fine arts casting of ferrous and nonferrous material.
Art^Photography: Theory and Criticism Photography: Theory and Criticism ART 338 Photography: Theory and Criticism (5) VLPA/I&SArt traditions of photography from its origins in the nineteenth century to the present. Emphasis on photographic traditions and photographers of the twentieth century, and investigations of and research into local collections.
Art^Photography Photography ART 339 Photography (5) VLPAIntroduces a range of theories, ideas, techniques, and processes of still photography in a fine art context. Emphasizes photography's creative potential.
Art^Advanced Photomedia Advanced Photomedia ART 340 Advanced Photomedia (5, max. 15) VLPAExplores the concepts and techniques of contemporary photographic practice, including non-traditional approaches to photography and related media. Explores 3-dimensional installation practices, collaborative projects, and the moving image. Examines the use and role of photography and related media in contemporary culture. Introduces how an artist's work responds to these contemporary issues.
Art^Intermediate Printmaking Intermediate Printmaking ART 345 Intermediate Printmaking (5, max. 25) VLPADevelopment of mature and personal statement within context of the print form through studio practice and group discussion and critique. Processes and media emphasis varies on a revolving basis.
Art^Printmaking Special Projects Printmaking Special Projects ART 350 Printmaking Special Projects (5, max. 15) VLPAIn depth study of a printmaking method such as sequential printing, multi-block printing, white-ground aquaint, or sugar-lift aquatint.
Art^Furniture Design and Making Furniture Design and Making ART 351 Furniture Design and Making (5, max. 10) VLPAIntroduction to furniture design and making. Covers history of furniture from 1850 to present and includes hands-on learning resulting in design and fabrication of three unique tables. No previous experience required.
Art^Furniture Design and Production Furniture Design and Production ART 352 Furniture Design and Production (5, max. 10) VLPAHands-on woodworking and furniture production. Includes development of technique and collaboration with fabrication shops and design professionals. Uses design drawing, model building, and full-scale construction prototypes as tools of communication. End-of-term exhibit places work on public view.
Art^Intermediate Ceramic Art Intermediate Ceramic Art ART 353 Intermediate Ceramic Art (5, max. 20) VLPAExplores a variety of ceramic processes and conceptual development including: press and slip molds, glaze formulation, multiples and installation, tiles and bricks, intermediate wheel, time, space, and scale.
Art^Materials in Context for Interdisciplinary Practice Materials in Context for Interdisciplinary Practice ART 355 Materials in Context for Interdisciplinary Practice (5) VLPAFocuses on exploring the meanings, uses, and visual/sculptural potentials of both traditional and innovative new materials, both natural and man-made.
Art^Topics in Studio Art and Practice Topics in Studio Art and Practice ART 360 Topics in Studio Art and Practice (5, max. 25) VLPAExamines a variety of cutting edge, emerging, and interdisciplinary approaches in studio art and practice. Topics vary.
Art^Critical Issues in Contemporary Art Critical Issues in Contemporary Art ART 361 Critical Issues in Contemporary Art (5, max. 15) VLPASurveys critical ideas in contemporary art practice. Includes lectures by nationally recognized artists to introduce a wide range of artistic positions and practices. Engages students with the major issues informing contemporary art and new modes of practice.
Art^Social Practice Social Practice ART 365 Social Practice (5) VLPAIntroduces overlapping territories of art and social practice, the practice of Socially Engaged Art. Focuses on environmentalism, consumerism, economies, society and culture, activism, and the place for creative practice in our contemporary life.
Art^Intermediate Drawing Intermediate Drawing ART 390 Intermediate Drawing (5, max. 10) VLPA
Art^Intermediate Drawing Topics Intermediate Drawing Topics ART 391 Intermediate Drawing Topics (5) VLPARevolving topics in the study of drawing at the intermediate level.
Art^Intermediate Painting Intermediate Painting ART 392 Intermediate Painting (5, max. 10) VLPA
Art^Intermediate Painting Topics Intermediate Painting Topics ART 393 Intermediate Painting Topics (5) VLPARevolving topics in the study of painting at the intermediate level.
Art^The Creative Process: Strategies and Outcomes The Creative Process: Strategies and Outcomes ART 395 The Creative Process: Strategies and Outcomes (5) VLPAExplores the nature of the creative process in the visual arts. Focuses on experiential learning through projects of ideation, experimentation, problem solving, editing, and creating narrative meanings.
Art^Interdisciplinary Visual Arts Senior Studio Interdisciplinary Visual Arts Senior Studio ART 400 Interdisciplinary Visual Arts Senior Studio (5, max. 15) VLPA LabitzkeFocuses on the development of exhibition quality artwork, culminating in a group show. Covers curatorial issues, installation, and presentation. Assignments are designed to strengthen oral presentation skills, artist's written statement, critiquing abilities, and ability to place work within a larger art historical framework.
Art^Video Art Video Art ART 421 Video Art (5, max. 15) VLPA
Art^Special Topics in Surface Design Special Topics in Surface Design ART 427 Special Topics in Surface Design (5, max. 15) VLPAAdvanced art making in the field of surface design. Topics include improvisational silk screening, artists' books, and explorations of non-traditional approaches in surface design.
Art^Senior Thesis in Fiber Arts Senior Thesis in Fiber Arts ART 428 Senior Thesis in Fiber Arts (5, max. 20) VLPASpecialized investigation involving surface design and/or fabric structures.
Art^Senior Thesis in Photomedia Senior Thesis in Photomedia ART 440 Senior Thesis in Photomedia (5, max. 20) VLPADevelopment of a coherent artistic theme or topic evolved over three consecutive quarters resulting in a finished thesis portfolio.
Art^Individual Projects in Printmaking Individual Projects in Printmaking ART 450 Individual Projects in Printmaking (5, max. 15) VLPAIndividual media study within the context of group discussion and critique.
Art^3M Senior Studio 3M Senior Studio ART 453 3D4M Senior Studio (5, max. 20)Includes individual studio work, seminars, source presentations, field trips, professional practices, and culminates with the BFA thesis exhibition.
Art^Artist Handmade Books Artist Handmade Books ART 457 Artist Handmade Books (5) VLPAThe creative and structural development of an artist's book. Focuses on issues of sequential imagery, conceptual development, and the relationship between work and image.
Art^Alternative Approaches to Drawing Alternative Approaches to Drawing ART 458 Alternative Approaches to Drawing (5) VLPAAdvanced works-on-paper class. Focuses on drawing issues such as formal process, working methods, conceptual development, and practical working applications.
Art^Advanced Drawing Advanced Drawing ART 490 Advanced Drawing (5, max. 15) VLPAStudy at an advanced level involving history, practice, and theory of drawing as an art form.
Art^Advanced Drawing Topics Advanced Drawing Topics ART 491 Advanced Drawing Topics (5) VLPARevolving topics in the study of drawing at the advanced level.
Art^Advanced Painting: The Figure Advanced Painting: The Figure ART 492 Advanced Painting: The Figure (5, max. 10) VLPADrawing and painting from the model.
Art^Advanced Painting Topics Advanced Painting Topics ART 493 Advanced Painting Topics (5) VLPARevolving topics in the study of painting at the advanced level.
Art^Senior Seminar in Painting and Drawing Senior Seminar in Painting and Drawing ART 494 Senior Seminar in Painting and Drawing (5, max. 15) VLPADevelopment of individuality in painting through creative exercises.
Art^Art Internship Art Internship ART 496 Art Internship (1-5, max. 10)Internships in conjunction with Art faculty and partners in the large visual arts community.
Art^Study Abroad-Studio Individual Projects Study Abroad-Studio Individual Projects ART 497 Study Abroad-Studio Individual Projects (3-10, max. 20) VLPA
Art^Individual Projects - Art Individual Projects - Art ART 498 Individual Projects - Art (2-5, max. 15)Independent projects in studio art.
Art^Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship ART 501 Graduate Student Teaching Mentorship (2-5, max. 15)Independent study for graduate students to work under the direction of a faculty member as they prepare for and teach an undergraduate class.
Art^Graduate Seminar Graduate Seminar ART 512 Graduate Seminar (3, max. 9)
Art^Graduate Studio Photomedia Graduate Studio Photomedia ART 515 Graduate Studio Photomedia (3-15, max. 60)Photomedia graduate studio and seminar, including readings, discussions, and studio critiques.
Art^Fiber Arts Fiber Arts ART 540 Fiber Arts (3-15, max. 60)
Art^Printmaking Printmaking ART 550 Printmaking (3-15, max. 60)
Art^3M Grad Studio 3M Grad Studio ART 553 3D4M Grad Studio (3-15, max. 60)
Art^Interdisciplinary Graduate Seminar in Contemporary Practices Interdisciplinary Graduate Seminar in Contemporary Practices ART 590 Interdisciplinary Graduate Seminar in Contemporary Practices (5, max. 25)Constructive forum for developing dialogue and critique in practicum-based setting. Professional development highlights the student's experience.
Art^Graduate Studio: Drawing Graduate Studio: Drawing ART 591 Graduate Studio: Drawing (5, max. 15)Supervised studio for advanced-level students from various media-based disciplines designed to develop an interest in and familiarity with aspects of drawing. Utilization of various media. Discussion of historical and contemporary issues concerning drawing.
Art^Graduate Studio: Painting Graduate Studio: Painting ART 592 Graduate Studio: Painting (3-15, max. 60)Offered: AWSp.
Art^Graduate Seminar in Painting and Drawing Graduate Seminar in Painting and Drawing ART 594 Graduate Seminar in Painting and Drawing (5, max. 15)Designed as a forum for the presentation and criticism of student work as well as for discussion of contemporary directions in visual art.
Art^Master of Fine Arts Research Project Master of Fine Arts Research Project ART 595 Master of Fine Arts Research Project (2-5, max. 10)An independent research project related to and informed by the MFA student's studio work. Final project form may be a lecture, slide presentation, or paper.
Education^Community-Based Field Experience Community-Based Field Experience EDTEP 501 Community-Based Field Experience (1-10, max. 15)Field experience and group discussions accompanying the first quarter of study in an Elementary Teacher Education Program. Field experience in community based organizations or school settings.
Education^Second Quarter Field Experience - Elementary Second Quarter Field Experience - Elementary EDTEP 502 Second Quarter Field Experience - Elementary (2-10, max. 15)Field experience accompanying the second quarter of study in an Elementary Teacher Education Program. Observe school-year opening full-time in late August through September; field experiences during the quarter in supervised school placements.
Education^Third Quarter Field Experience - Elementary Third Quarter Field Experience - Elementary EDTEP 503 Third Quarter Field Experience - Elementary (4)Field experience and use of reflective process in small group discussions accompanying third quarter of study in an Elementary Teacher Education Program. Field experiences during the quarter in supervised school placements.
Education^Capstone Project: Tools for Reflection - Elementary Capstone Project: Tools for Reflection - Elementary EDTEP 505 Capstone Project: Tools for Reflection - Elementary ([1-3]-, max. 3)Group discussions fostering integration of coursework, field experience, and teaching experiences through documentation and reflection on first year teaching experiences. Using certification standards for teachers, students illustrate their learning through multiple forms of evidence. Final capstone project is presented to an audience.
Education^School and Society School and Society EDTEP 511 School and Society (3)Exploration of issues regarding schooling and society, such as matters of value and value tension in American schools. Consideration of social values such as equality, opportunity, pluralism, and community; historical and contemporary evidence of values in schooling; and how values can conflict in policy and practice.
Education^Instructional Practice and Performance I Instructional Practice and Performance I EDTEP 515 Instructional Practice and Performance I (4)Focuses on supporting teacher candidates to plan for, enact, and reflect on productive learning experiences for K-12 students where discussion is a central component and learning experience. First in a three-course series.
Education^Instructional Practice and Performance II Instructional Practice and Performance II EDTEP 516 Instructional Practice and Performance II (4)Supports candidates to plan for, enact, and reflect on a variety of assessment opportunities presented to K-12 students. Candidates analyze K-12 students' learning through investigation of a variety of assessment data points as evidence. Second in a three-course series.
Education^Instructional Practice and Performance III Instructional Practice and Performance III EDTEP 517 Instructional Practice and Performance III (4)Supports teacher candidates to plan for, enact, and reflect on productive learning experiences for K-12 students where engaging in rigorous content instruction is a central component and learning experience. Third in a three-course series.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Numeracy I Teaching and Learning in Numeracy I EDTEP 521 Teaching and Learning in Numeracy I (4)Focus on mathematics from the perspective of the learner and on the meaning of understanding a mathematics concept. Examination of cultural aspects of the development of these concepts.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Numeracy II Teaching and Learning in Numeracy II EDTEP 522 Teaching and Learning in Numeracy II (3)Focus on pedagogy of mathematics. In conjunction with field experience, students extend understanding of mathematics and successfully integrate mathematics as a tool for learning science and art.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Science Teaching and Learning in Science EDTEP 523 Teaching and Learning in Science (3)Science teaching in a manner consistent with how young children learn science concepts and skills. Opportunities are provided for work on science activities similar to those used with elementary school children and to experience many of the problems and successes of preadolescents.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Literacy I Teaching and Learning in Literacy I EDTEP 531 Teaching and Learning in Literacy I (3)Investigation of the multiple natures of literacy development. Students study the impact of culture and family on literacy development by reading and discussing a variety of texts while also experiencing the development of their own learning through literature study, the writing process, and oral presentations.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Literacy II Teaching and Learning in Literacy II EDTEP 532 Teaching and Learning in Literacy II (4)Introduces participants to the content and process of literacy learning in elementary school. Study of abilities needed for effective literacy use, instructional strategies to help children acquire these abilities, and assessment strategies to evaluate student progress.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Literacy III Teaching and Learning in Literacy III EDTEP 533 Teaching and Learning in Literacy III (3)Introduces participants to the content and process of literacy learning in elementary school. Study of abilities needed for effective literacy use, instructional strategies to help children acquire these abilities, and assessment strategies to evaluate student progress.
Education^Dilemmas of Teaching and Learning in Elementary School Dilemmas of Teaching and Learning in Elementary School EDTEP 541 Dilemmas of Teaching and Learning in Elementary School ([2-4]-, max. 4)Covers human learning in the elementary school setting with emphasis on discipline-specific cognition and cognitive development.
Education^Teaching and Learning in Social Studies. Teaching and Learning in Social Studies. EDTEP 543 Teaching and Learning in Social Studies. (4)Strategies for teaching social studies and the arts through integrated thematic units of curriculum and instruction.
Education^Differentiated Instruction Differentiated Instruction EDTEP 544 Differentiated Instruction (1-4, max. 20)Introduction to the concepts and practice of differentiated instruction for children with diverse developmental, linguistic, and cultural characteristics.
Education^Multicultural Teaching Multicultural Teaching EDTEP 551 Multicultural Teaching (3)Concepts, theories, and strategies that constitute major dimensions of multicultural education. Focus on racial and ethnic groups, social class, and gender. Dimensions of multicultural education examined include content integration, knowledge construction process, prejudice reduction, equity pedagogy, and empowering school culture and social structure.
Education^Assessment in Elementary Education Assessment in Elementary Education EDTEP 552 Assessment in Elementary Education ([1-2]-, max. 3)Emphasis on methods of assessment that reinforce understanding of the various disciplines. Includes performance assessments, assessments of student projects and papers, traditional exams, and observational exams.
Education^Teaching for Learning in Secondary School Teaching for Learning in Secondary School EDTEP 560 Teaching for Learning in Secondary School (3)Studies human learning in an educational setting, with an emphasis on learning of school subjects. Topics include nature of learning, knowledge and teaching, motivation, culture, and cognition. First in a two-course sequence.
Education^Teaching and Learning for Secondary Schools II Teaching and Learning for Secondary Schools II EDTEP 561 Teaching and Learning for Secondary Schools II (2)Study of human learning in an educational setting, with an emphasis on learning of school subjects. Topics include nature of learning, knowledge and teaching, motivation, culture, and cognition. Second of a two-course sequence.
Education^Adolescent Development and Education I Adolescent Development and Education I EDTEP 562 Adolescent Development and Education I (2-)Overview of trends and issues of adolescent development and behavior in relation to contemporary secondary schooling. Examines psychological perspectives on adolescent identity, interpersonal relationships, academic engagement, and social deviancy in schools. First in a two-course sequence.
Education^Adolescent Development and Education II Adolescent Development and Education II EDTEP 563 Adolescent Development and Education II (-2)Overview of trends and issues of adolescent development and behavior in relation to contemporary secondary schooling. Examines psychological perspectives on adolescent identity, interpersonal relationships, academic engagement, and social deviancy in schools. Second in a two-course sequence.
Education^Working in Schools Working in Schools EDTEP 564 Working in Schools (1-2, max. 20)Explores the organizational, personal, and interpersonal aspects of working as a teacher in schools. Preparation for membership and leadership in a professional learning community and for continuing professional growth.
Education^Creating Classrooms for All Students Creating Classrooms for All Students EDTEP 566 Creating Classrooms for All Students (2-4, max. 4)Provides middle and high school teachers with an understanding of how to organize their classrooms so as to encourage and teach civility and be familiar with the needs of special education students.
Education^Topics and Tensions in School and Society Topics and Tensions in School and Society EDTEP 571 Topics and Tensions in School and Society (4)Exploration of issues of value and value tension in American schools. Consideration of social values of equality, opportunity, pluralism, and community, historical and contemporary evidence of values in schooling, and how values can conflict in policy and practice.
Education^Assessment in Secondary Education Assessment in Secondary Education EDTEP 573 Assessment in Secondary Education (4)Strong emphasis on methods of assessment that reinforce understanding of the various disciplines, including performance assessments, assessments of student projects and papers, traditional exams, and observational exams.
Education^Working with English Language Learners and Literacy Across the Curriculum Working with English Language Learners and Literacy Across the Curriculum EDTEP 575 Working with English Language Learners and Literacy Across the Curriculum (4)Prepares pre-service secondary teachers to meet the needs of culturally and linguistically diverse students in the mainstream secondary classroom. Emphasis on second language acquisition, critical literacy issues, and integration of language and literacy into academic content areas for adolescent learners.
Education^Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School I Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School I EDTEP 580 Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School I (5-)Teaching of English and language arts in middle, junior, or senior high school.
Education^Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School II Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School II EDTEP 581 Teaching English and Language Arts in Secondary School II (-3)Teaching of English and language arts in middle, junior, or senior high school.
Education^Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School I Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School I EDTEP 582 Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School I (5-)Teaching of mathematics in middle, junior, or senior high school.
Education^Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School II Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School II EDTEP 583 Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School II (-3)Teaching of mathematics in middle, junior, or senior high school.
Education^Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School I Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School I EDTEP 584 Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School I (5-)Developing, teaching, and evaluating social studies courses on the middle, junior, and senior high school levels.
Education^Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School II Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School II EDTEP 585 Teaching Social Studies in the Secondary School II (-3)Developing, teaching, and evaluating social studies courses on the middle, junior, and senior high school levels.
Education^Teaching Science in the Secondary School I Teaching Science in the Secondary School I EDTEP 586 Teaching Science in the Secondary School I (5-)Teaching of science in middle, junior, or senior high school.
Education^Teaching Science in the Secondary School II Teaching Science in the Secondary School II EDTEP 587 Teaching Science in the Secondary School II (-3)Teaching of science in middle, junior, or senior high school.
Education^Teaching World Languages I Teaching World Languages I EDTEP 588 Teaching World Languages I (5-)Introduction to currently used foreign language teaching methods and approaches, including learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills - reading, writing, speaking, listening - and culture. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology.
Education^Teaching World Languages II Teaching World Languages II EDTEP 589 Teaching World Languages II (-3)Introduction to currently used foreign language teaching methods and approaches, including learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills - reading, writing, speaking, listening - and culture. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology.
Education^First Quarter Field Experience - Secondary First Quarter Field Experience - Secondary EDTEP 591 First Quarter Field Experience - Secondary (2-5, max. 10)Field experience accompanying the first quarter of study in the Secondary Teacher Education Program. Observe and assist weekly during the quarter in supervised school placements.
Education^Second Quarter Field Experience - Secondary Second Quarter Field Experience - Secondary EDTEP 592 Second Quarter Field Experience - Secondary (2-5, max. 10)Field experience accompanying the second quarter of study in the Secondary Teacher Education Program. Supervised placements in summer school program.
Education^Third Quarter Field Experience - Secondary Third Quarter Field Experience - Secondary EDTEP 593 Third Quarter Field Experience - Secondary (2-5, max. 10)Field experience accompanying third quarter of study in Secondary Teacher Education Program. Four weeks full-time plus daily part-time in supervised school placements.
Education^Capstone Project: Tool for Reflection - Secondary Capstone Project: Tool for Reflection - Secondary EDTEP 595 Capstone Project: Tool for Reflection - Secondary ([1-3]-, max. 3)Group discussions fostering integration of coursework, field experience, and teaching experiences through documentation and reflection on student teaching experiences. Using certification standards for teachers, students illustrate their learning through multiple forms of evidence. Final capstone project is presented to an audience.
Education^Fourth Quarter Field Experience Fourth Quarter Field Experience EDTEP 601 Fourth Quarter Field Experience (2-10, max. 15)Field experience during the fourth quarter of study in a Teacher Education Program. Full-time student teaching in supervised school placements.
Art History^ART Survey of Western Art-Ancient ART Survey of Western Art-Ancient ART H 201 Survey of Western Art-Ancient (5) VLPAMajor achievements in painting, sculpture, architecture, and the decorative arts in Europe, the Near East, and North Africa, from prehistoric times to the beginnings of Christianity.
Art History^ART Survey of Western Art-Medieval and Renaissance ART Survey of Western Art-Medieval and Renaissance ART H 202 Survey of Western Art-Medieval and Renaissance (5) VLPAEmphasizes the arts of the Byzantine Empire and Western Christendom from Late Antiquity to the High Renaissance.
Art History^ART Survey of Western Art-Modern ART Survey of Western Art-Modern ART H 203 Survey of Western Art-Modern (5) VLPAWestern art from 1520 to the present.
Art History^ART Survey of Tribal Art ART Survey of Tribal Art ART H 205 Survey of Tribal Art (5) VLPA/I&SArts of Sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania from prehistoric times to the present and to the pre-Columbian arts of the Americas.
Art History^ART Survey of Native-North American Art ART Survey of Native-North American Art ART H 206 Survey of Native-North American Art (5) VLPA/I&SSurvey of the indigenous arts of North America north of Mexico from ancient through contemporary times. Focuses on the historical and cultural contexts of the arts and the stylistic differences between tribal and individual artists' styles.
Art History^ART Chinese Art and Visual Culture ART Chinese Art and Visual Culture ART H 212 Chinese Art and Visual Culture (5) VLPA/I&SSurveys the highlights of Chinese visual arts from the Neolithic to the present. Studies jade, bronze, lacquer, silk, Buddhist sculpture, ceramics, calligraphy, painting, architecture, film, and installation art forms at a moment in Chinese history when work in those media was especially innovative and important.
Art History^ART Art of India: Mohenjo-Daro to the Mughals ART Art of India: Mohenjo-Daro to the Mughals ART H 214 Art of India: Mohenjo-Daro to the Mughals (5) VLPA/I&SSurveys the material culture and artistic production of South Asia, which includes the present-day nation states of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, and Sri Lanka, from antiquity until the early modern period.
Art History^ART The Arts of Japan: A Visual and Cultural History ART The Arts of Japan: A Visual and Cultural History ART H 215 The Arts of Japan: A Visual and Cultural History (5) VLPASurvey of Japanese art from prehistory to the present. Focuses on selected works of paintings, sculpture, calligraphy, architecture, gardens, and manga while considering themes such as art forms, techniques, patronage, religious beliefs and practice, relationship to other Asian traditions, modernity and tradition, and ideas of representation in ancient Japan.
Art History^ART The African-American Tradition: A Transatlantic View of Art and Culture ART The African-American Tradition: A Transatlantic View of Art and Culture ART H 230 The African-American Tradition: A Transatlantic View of Art and Culture (5) VLPA/I&SAssesses the diversity of art by individuals of African descent in Brazil, the Caribbean, and the United States. Examines questions of form, meaning, and symbolic and ritual behavior. Considers formal and conceptual relationships between art forms and their African sources; assesses their role in the construction of new African-American identities.
Art History^ART Survey of Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast ART Survey of Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast ART H 233 Survey of Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast (5) VLPA/I&SSurveys indigenous art of the Pacific Northwest Coast from the Columbia River in the south to Southeast Alaska in the north and from ancient through contemporary times. Focuses on the historical and cultural contexts of the art and the stylistic differences between tribal and individual artists' styles.
Art History^ART Rome ART Rome ART H 250 Rome (5) VLPA/I&SFocuses on Rome as an historical, intellectual, and artistic world center. Literary and historic documents, visual arts, architecture, film, and opera used to explore the changing paradigms of the Eternal City. In English. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 250/ITAL 250.
Art History^ART Fashion, Nation, and Culture ART Fashion, Nation, and Culture ART H 260 Fashion, Nation, and Culture (5) VLPA/I&S GaylardIntroduction to Italian culture focusing on fashion and manners from the late Middle Ages to today. Explores common assumptions about nation, gender, clothes, make-up, and manners, through literary and visual analysis. In English. Offered: jointly with ITAL 260/JSIS A 260; W.
Art History^ART Italian Cities ART Italian Cities ART H 261 Italian Cities (5) VLPAIntroduces Italian culture by focusing on the past and present of five of the nation's most important cities: Rome, Florence, Venice, Milan, and Naples. Taught in English. Offered: jointly with ITAL 261.
Art History^ART History of Architecture ART History of Architecture ART H 290 History of Architecture (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduction to the history of architecture across a broad range of cultural contexts.
Art History^ART Indian Art of South Asia ART Indian Art of South Asia ART H 306 Indian Art of South Asia (5) VLPADevelopment of Indian art from its origins to the medieval period. Spread of Indian religions and related art forms in Tibet and Southeast Asia are briefly introduced.
Art History^ART Topics in Art History ART Topics in Art History ART H 309 Topics in Art History (5, max. 25) VLPATopics vary.
Art History^ART Chinese Art and Archaeology Neolithic to Han Dynasty ART Chinese Art and Archaeology Neolithic to Han Dynasty ART H 310 Chinese Art and Archaeology Neolithic to Han Dynasty (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduces Chinese art and archaeology from the Neolithic to the Han Dynasty. Focuses on the history of developing technology and the archaeological basis for understanding the development of art and visual culture in early China.
Art History^ART Arts of Imperial China ART Arts of Imperial China ART H 311 Arts of Imperial China (5) VLPA/I&SIntroduces the role of painting in the history of Imperial China from the fourth to the seventeenth century. Topics for reading and discussion include political forces, regional geography, social structure, gender, traditional philosophies, and religious and spiritual influences.
Art History^ART Art and Empire in India, 1750-1900 ART Art and Empire in India, 1750-1900 ART H 312 Art and Empire in India, 1750-1900 (5) VLPASurveys the transformation in the visual arts between the Mughal and British empires in India. Topics of learning and discussion include changes and new developments in artistic production, patronage, viewing publics and protocols, technology, roles of art institutions, and exchanges between media.
Art History^ART East Asian Art ART East Asian Art ART H 313 East Asian Art (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&SExamines East Asian art and visual culture from ancient times to present day. Emphasizes how artistic styles were tied to different social and cultural contexts, and how arts were transformed and exchanged within the larger cultural geographical circle of East Asia.
Art History^ART Modern and Contemporary Art in India ART Modern and Contemporary Art in India ART H 314 Modern and Contemporary Art in India (5) VLPASurveys the visual arts of India from the late colonial through the postcolonial period. Topics include impact of colonialism, anti-colonial nationalist claims for art, shifting status of oil paintings, emergence of a national style, new art movements in urban centers, and art in the service of forge postcolonial identities and alliances.
Art History^ART Buddhist Art and Material Culture of East Asia ART Buddhist Art and Material Culture of East Asia ART H 315 Buddhist Art and Material Culture of East Asia (5, max. 15) VLPABuddhist painting and sculpture of China, Korea, and Japan. Explores religious meaning, artistic development, and historical significance. Examples from the sixth to the seventeenth centuries, along with paintings and contemporary carvings.
Art History^ART Chado-Japanese Esthetics ART Chado-Japanese Esthetics ART H 317 Chado-Japanese Esthetics (4) VLPAHistory, theory, and practice of chado, or Way of Tea, a Zen-inspired art that has had notable effects on Japanese society. Lectures on esthetics and cultural history supplemented by participation in chado, with the goal of developing sufficient understanding and skill to continue chado as a discipline.
Art History^ART Japanese Prints 1600-Present ART Japanese Prints 1600-Present ART H 318 Japanese Prints 1600-Present (5) VLPA BogelIntroduction to Japanese printmaking practices, style, and themes. Examines concerns related to gender, issues of representation, explicit sexual imagery, cultural and artistic practice, and the function of prints.
Art History^ART Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast ART Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast ART H 331 Native Art of the Pacific Northwest Coast (5) VLPA/I&SSurvey of the indigenous arts of the Pacific Northwest Coast from the Columbia River in the south to Southeast Alaska in the north. Overview of ancient through contemporary times, focusing on the historical and cultural contexts of the arts and the stylistic differences between tribal and individual artists' styles. Offered: jointly with ANTH 331.
Art History^ART African Art and Society ART African Art and Society ART H 337 African Art and Society (5) VLPA/I&SExplores the ideas and notions expressed visually in sculpture, painting, ceramics, textiles, and architecture and describes their relationships to man and culture in Africa.
Art History^ART Pre-Classical Art and Archaeology ART Pre-Classical Art and Archaeology ART H 340 Pre-Classical Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA K. TOPPERSurvey of the art and the other material remains of the civilizations in the Aegean from the Neolithic Age to the end of the Bronze Age, with special emphasis on Minoan Crete and the Mycenaean kingdoms of mainland Greece, illustrated by slides. The history, techniques, and results of significant excavations are examined. Offered: jointly with CL AR 340.
Art History^ART Greek Art and Archaeology ART Greek Art and Archaeology ART H 341 Greek Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA S. LEVIN-RICHARDSON, K. TOPPERSurvey of the material remains and the developing styles in sculpture, vase painting, architecture, and the minor arts from the geometric to the Hellenistic periods, illustrated by slides. Principal sites and monuments, as well as techniques and methods of excavation, are examined in an attempt to reconstruct the material culture of antiquity. Offered: jointly with CL AR 341.
Art History^ART Roman Art and Archaeology ART Roman Art and Archaeology ART H 342 Roman Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA K. TOPPERRoman architecture and art, with emphasis on the innovations of the Romans; illustrated by slides. Offered: jointly with CL AR 342.
Art History^ART Hellenistic Art and Archaeology ART Hellenistic Art and Archaeology ART H 343 Hellenistic Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA K. TOPPERSurvey of the art of Greece and the eastern Mediterranean from the time of Alexander the Great to the Roman conquest. Principal sites with their sculpture, painting, mosaics, and minor arts examined in lectures illustrated with slides. Offered: jointly with CL AR 343.
Art History^ART Early Medieval and Byzantine Art ART Early Medieval and Byzantine Art ART H 351 Early Medieval and Byzantine Art (5) VLPA/I&SChristian art and architecture of the Roman and Byzantine empires and of western Europe through the eighth century.
Art History^ART High and Late Medieval Art ART High and Late Medieval Art ART H 352 High and Late Medieval Art (5) VLPA/I&SArt and architecture of western Christendom from the time of Charlemagne to the Renaissance.
Art History^ART Italian Renaissance Art ART Italian Renaissance Art ART H 361 Italian Renaissance Art (5) VLPASculpture, painting, and architecture from 1300 to 1600.
Art History^ART Northern Renaissance Art ART Northern Renaissance Art ART H 366 Northern Renaissance Art (5) VLPAAn overview of Netherlandish, French, and German art in the context of cultural developments circa 1400-1570.
Art History^ART Southern Baroque Art ART Southern Baroque Art ART H 373 Southern Baroque Art (5) VLPAArt of Italy and Spain, circa 1590 to circa 1710.
Art History^ART Northern Baroque Art ART Northern Baroque Art ART H 374 Northern Baroque Art (5) VLPAThe art of northern Europe, circa 1590 to circa 1710.
Art History^ART Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century Art ART Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century Art ART H 380 Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century Art (5) VLPAArts and architecture of Europe and America from Romanticism to the present.
Art History^ART Art Since World War II ART Art Since World War II ART H 381 Art Since World War II (5) VLPA/I&SArt of Europe and the United States in the decades since World War II: painting, sculpture, and architecture, multiplication of new forms (video, performance pieces, land and installation pieces), changing context of patronage, publicity, and marketing.
Art History^ART Theory and Practice of Art Criticism ART Theory and Practice of Art Criticism ART H 382 Theory and Practice of Art Criticism (5) VLPAExplores the origins, development, decline, and aftermath of modernist visual art criticism in the United States. Emphasizes study of widely circulated critical essays and reviews. Assesses and evaluates categories of critical writing in contemporary art publications and art-historical texts.
Art History^ART American Art ART American Art ART H 384 American Art (5) VLPA/I&SAchievements and issues in painting, architecture, sculpture, and other arts in the United States from the colonial era to the present.
Art History^ART Art in Rome: Augustus to Mussolini ART Art in Rome: Augustus to Mussolini ART H 397 Art in Rome: Augustus to Mussolini (10) VLPASurvey of art in Rome; studies from original monuments. Offered in Italy as part of the art history seminar in Rome. Focuses on representative works from the most important periods of Italian art: Ancient, Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Modern. Site visits, field trips, individual research projects.
Art History^ART Study Abroad: Art History Individual Projects ART Study Abroad: Art History Individual Projects ART H 399 Study Abroad: Art History Individual Projects (3-10, max. 20) VLPAFor participants in study abroad programs.
Art History^ART ART History and Criticism ART ART History and Criticism ART H 400 ART History and Criticism (2-5, max. 15) VLPACourses on special topics, frequently by visiting faculty, which cannot be offered on a continuing basis. Consult art history office for subjects offered.
Art History^ART Chinese Painting Experiences, 900-1800 ART Chinese Painting Experiences, 900-1800 ART H 411 Chinese Painting Experiences, 900-1800 (3) VLPA/I&SExamines issues of style, theme, and function in Chinese pointing from the tenth to the nineteenth century. Discusses painting practice, patronage, regional diversity, the relationship of word and image, amateurism vs. professionalism, and the introduction of foreign elements.
Art History^ART Art History and the Study of Chinese Bronzes ART Art History and the Study of Chinese Bronzes ART H 412 Art History and the Study of Chinese Bronzes (5) VLPA/I&SAn investigation of Chinese Bronzes to illuminate some general ideas about the discipline and practice of art history. Focuses on a case study examining the work of a twentieth-century practitioner of art history and comparing it with that of a famous scholar from a neighboring discipline.
Art History^ART Selected Topics in Chinese Art ART Selected Topics in Chinese Art ART H 413 Selected Topics in Chinese Art (3, max. 9) VLPASpecific theme or area of Chinese art, such as the art of Bronze Age China or Chinese painting under Communist rule.
Art History^ART Topics in South Asian Art ART Topics in South Asian Art ART H 414 Topics in South Asian Art (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&SExplores topics on the art and visual culture of South Asia with a particular focus on India.
Art History^ART Japanese Architecture ART Japanese Architecture ART H 419 Japanese Architecture (3) VLPASurvey of Japanese architecture from its origins to modern times. Although Shinto architecture, tea houses, gardens, and modern developments are discussed, the primary focus is on the development of Japanese Buddhist architecture. Offered: jointly with ARCH 453.
Art History^ART Art of the Japanese Print ART Art of the Japanese Print ART H 420 Art of the Japanese Print (3) VLPAFoundations of Ukiyo-e in Japanese genre from the twelfth through mid-seventeenth centuries; woodblock technique from the Heian period through the early Edo period. Emphasis on the changing styles and subject matter in Ukiyo-e Hanga from Moronobu through Kuniyoshi.
Art History^ART Topics in Art and Visual Cultures: Japan ART Topics in Art and Visual Cultures: Japan ART H 421 Topics in Art and Visual Cultures: Japan (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&SSpecial topics in the study of Japanese art and visual culture.
Art History^ART Oceanic Art ART Oceanic Art ART H 432 Oceanic Art (3) VLPA/I&SExplores the arts of the Pacific Islands and Australia. Pays special attention to the arts of aboriginal Australia, traditional and contemporary creativity in Papua New Guinea, and the diversity of island Melanesian art forms.
Art History^ART Northern Northwest Coast Native-American Art: Methodologies in Stylistic Analysis ART Northern Northwest Coast Native-American Art: Methodologies in Stylistic Analysis ART H 433 Northern Northwest Coast Native-American Art: Methodologies in Stylistic Analysis (5) VLPAStylistic and historical analysis of northern Northwest Coast art (Haida, Tlingit, Tsimshian, Northern Wakashan). Intensive analysis of formline rules; stylistic variation through time and between tribal and individual artists' styles.
Art History^ART Native-American Art and Ceremony of the Southern and Central Northwest Coast ART Native-American Art and Ceremony of the Southern and Central Northwest Coast ART H 434 Native-American Art and Ceremony of the Southern and Central Northwest Coast (3) VLPA/I&SExamination of the role of the visual arts in the ceremonial life of the Native-American people of the central and southern Northwest Coast. Emphasis on the traditional social and religious aspects of ceremonialism, contrasts between tribal traditions, and continuing twentieth-century traditions.
Art History^ART Thematic Studies in Native-American Art ART Thematic Studies in Native-American Art ART H 435 Thematic Studies in Native-American Art (5, max. 15) VLPA/I&S WrightApproach to Native-American art through themes and issues. Focus varies from year to year (e.g. Shamanism in Native-American art, gender identity in Native-American art, social and political aspects of Native-American art, issues in contemporary Native-American art).
Art History^ART History of the Arts of Africa I ART History of the Arts of Africa I ART H 436 History of the Arts of Africa I (3) VLPA/I&SApproaches the arts of North Africa, the Sahara, and Sudan from pre-historic times to the present. Emphasizes the role of Islam throughout this vast region and the role of local cultures in shaping the varieties of African Islam.
Art History^ART History of the Arts of Africa II ART History of the Arts of Africa II ART H 437 History of the Arts of Africa II (3) VLPA/I&SExplores the history of the arts and creativity of western Africa from Cape Verde to Cape Lopez with consideration given to the European presence, the peoples of "Guinea," and the shaping of intercultural spaces and artistry.
Art History^ART History of the Arts of Africa III ART History of the Arts of Africa III ART H 438 History of the Arts of Africa III (3) VLPA/I&SSurveys the arts from the equatorial forest to the Cape of Good Hope with an extended examination of Congolese (Bantu and Abatwa) artistry, the personal arts of East Africa herders, and the art and architecture of Swahili civilization.
Art History^ART Greek Painting ART Greek Painting ART H 442 Greek Painting (3) VLPA K. TOPPERStudy of painted decoration on Greek vases, with emphasis on stylistic developments and cultural and historical influences. Painting on other media also examined as evidence allows. Offered: jointly with CL AR 442.
Art History^ART Roman Painting ART Roman Painting ART H 443 Roman Painting (3) VLPA S. LEVIN-RICHARDSON, K. TOPPERStudy of surviving painting from the Roman world, with emphasis on wall paintings from Pompeii and Herculaneum. Principal topics for discussion: the four styles of Pompeian painting the dependence of Roman painters on Greek prototypes, and the significance of various kinds of painting as domestic decoration. Offered: jointly with CL AR 443.
Art History^ART Greek and Roman Sculpture ART Greek and Roman Sculpture ART H 444 Greek and Roman Sculpture (3) VLPA K. TOPPERHistory and development of Greek sculpture and sculptors, their Roman copyists, and Roman portraits and sarcophagi. Emphasis on Greek sculpture of the fifth century BC. Offered: jointly with CL AR 444.
Art History^ART Greek Architecture ART Greek Architecture ART H 446 Greek Architecture (3) VLPA K. TOPPERDetailed study of Greek architecture from its beginnings, with special emphasis on the Periclean building program in fifth-century Athens. Offered: jointly with CL AR 446.
Art History^ART The Archaeology of Early Italy ART The Archaeology of Early Italy ART H 447 The Archaeology of Early Italy (3) VLPA S. LEVIN-RICHARDSON, K. TOPPERStudy of the principal archaeological sites of early Italy, including Etruria, Sicily, southern Italy, and archaic Rome up to the Republican period. Attention given to the material remains and their relationship to the Etruscan, ancient Sicilian, and early Roman civilizations. Offered: jointly with CL AR 447.
Art History^ART The Archaeology of Italy ART The Archaeology of Italy ART H 448 The Archaeology of Italy (3) VLPA S. LEVIN-RICHARDSON, K. TOPPERStudy of the principal archaeological sites in Italy with special emphasis on ancient Rome. Sites include the Alban hills, Ostia, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Tarquinia, Paestum, Tivoli, and Praeneste. Attention given to the relationship between material remains and their purpose in ancient life. Illustrated by slides. Offered: jointly with CL AR 448.
Art History^ART Topics in Early Christian and Byzantine Art and Architecture ART Topics in Early Christian and Byzantine Art and Architecture ART H 451 Topics in Early Christian and Byzantine Art and Architecture (3, max. 9) VLPASpecific theme or area of early Christian and Byzantine art and architecture, such as early Christian and Byzantine mosaics or the art of Constantinople.
Art History^ART Art, Religion, and Politics in the Early Christian Period, 300-700 AD ART Art, Religion, and Politics in the Early Christian Period, 300-700 AD ART H 452 Art, Religion, and Politics in the Early Christian Period, 300-700 AD (3) VLPA/I&S KartsonisEvolution of the art of the early Christian period (300-700 AD) in the context of contemporary religious, political, and cultural developments. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 452.
Art History^ART Art, Religion, and Politics in Byzantium, 700-1453 AD ART Art, Religion, and Politics in Byzantium, 700-1453 AD ART H 453 Art, Religion, and Politics in Byzantium, 700-1453 AD (3) VLPA/I&S KartsonisEvolution of the art of Byzantium (700-1453 AD) in the context of contemporary religious, political, and cultural developments. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 453.
Art History^ART Special Studies in Gothic Art and Architecture ART Special Studies in Gothic Art and Architecture ART H 455 Special Studies in Gothic Art and Architecture (3)
Art History^ART Topics in Northern European Art ART Topics in Northern European Art ART H 460 Topics in Northern European Art (3-5, max. 9) VLPA GoettlerApproaches to the art of northern Europe through particular themes, genres, contexts, or other issues. Focus varies from year to year.
Art History^ART Early Renaissance Painting in Italy ART Early Renaissance Painting in Italy ART H 461 Early Renaissance Painting in Italy (3) VLPAPainting of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries in central and northern Italy.
Art History^ART High Renaissance Painting in Italy ART High Renaissance Painting in Italy ART H 462 High Renaissance Painting in Italy (3) VLPAPainting in central and northern Italy, from about 1480 to about 1530: Leonardo, Raphael, the early Michelangelo, Sarto, Correggio, Bellini, Giorgione, and the early Titian.
Art History^ART Late Renaissance Painting in Italy ART Late Renaissance Painting in Italy ART H 464 Late Renaissance Painting in Italy (3) VLPAPainting in central and northern Italy, from about 1515 to about 1580: Pontormo, Rosso, Parmigianino, Beccafumi, the later Michelangelo, Vasari, Bronzino, Salviati, the later Titian, Tintoretto, and Veronese.
Art History^ART High Renaissance Painting in Venice ART High Renaissance Painting in Venice ART H 466 High Renaissance Painting in Venice (3) VLPAPainting in Venice, circa 1480 to circa 1580: Bellini, Carpaccio, Giorgione, Titian, Lotto, del Piombo, Tintoretto, and Veronese.
Art History^ART Rome in the Seventeenth Century ART Rome in the Seventeenth Century ART H 471 Rome in the Seventeenth Century (5) VLPAPainting, sculpture, and architecture; concentration on Caravaggio, Bernini, Poussin, and Borromini.
Art History^ART Topics in Baroque Art ART Topics in Baroque Art ART H 473 Topics in Baroque Art (5, max. 15) VLPAApproaches to the study of Baroque art through particular themes, genres, contexts, new research, and emerging issues. Focus varies from year to year.
Art History^ART Representations of the Other in 19th Century Art ART Representations of the Other in 19th Century Art ART H 479 Representations of the Other in 19th Century Art (5) VLPAExplores how cultural identities were formed and reinforced in nineteenth-century European, British, and American Art. Includes investigations of physical and racial stereotyping, historical notions of the "primitive," fantasies of race, gender, imperialism, nationalism, and ethnicity.
Art History^ART Art Museums: History, Theory, Practice ART Art Museums: History, Theory, Practice ART H 480 Art Museums: History, Theory, Practice (5) VLPAExplores the history of art museums in America and Europe from the nineteenth century to the present. Topics include connoisseurship and conservation, theories of design and display, architectural challenges, auction houses, dealers, curators, directors, impact of education departments, museums' changing relationship to public audiences, visual arts, and the law.
Art History^ART Post-Impressionism to 1918 ART Post-Impressionism to 1918 ART H 483 Post-Impressionism to 1918 (5) VLPAPost-Impressionism and the great revolution of early twentieth-century art, with emphasis on painting. From the first revisions of Impressionism around 1880 to Fauvism, Cubism, Futurism, the Blaue Reiter, and Dadaism.
Art History^ART Topics in Modern Art ART Topics in Modern Art ART H 484 Topics in Modern Art (5, max. 15) VLPAApproach to art of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries through particular themes, genres, contexts, or other issues. Focus varies from year to year.
Art History^ART Italian Futurism, Dada, Surrealism ART Italian Futurism, Dada, Surrealism ART H 485 Italian Futurism, Dada, Surrealism (5) VLPA FailingSurvey of three European early modern art movements whose ultimate objective was the collapse of bourgeois culture. Central issues: the role of art and artists in catalyzing social change, strategies for destroying public faith in logic, integration of verbal and visual signs and nonaesthetic conceptions of art.
Art History^ART Abstract Expressionism: History and Myth ART Abstract Expressionism: History and Myth ART H 486 Abstract Expressionism: History and Myth (5) VLPAThematic and chronological survey of abstract expressionism, including major genres of critical interpretation, revisionist scholarship, and the relationship of artistic production to a larger context of visual production.
Art History^ART American Architecture ART American Architecture ART H 488 American Architecture (3)American architecture from indigenous Native American traditions to the present. Offered: jointly with ARCH 455.
Art History^ART Nineteenth-Century Architecture ART Nineteenth-Century Architecture ART H 490 Nineteenth-Century Architecture (3) VLPAFrom late eighteenth century French rationalists, Neoclassicists, to fin de siecle Vienna and Paris. Includes theorists such as Ruskin, Viollet-le-Duc, and Semper; major movements, such as the Arts and Crafts, and the French Ecole des Beaux-Arts method of design. Offered: jointly with ARCH 456.
Art History^ART Twentieth-Century Architecture ART Twentieth-Century Architecture ART H 491 Twentieth-Century Architecture (3) VLPAArchitecture in the twentieth century, mainly in Europe and the United States. Traces roots of Modernism in Europe in the 1920s, its demise (largely in the United States) in the 1960s, and recent trends such as Post-Modernism and Deconstructivism. Offered: jointly with ARCH 457.
Art History^ART Alternative Art Forms Since 1960 ART Alternative Art Forms Since 1960 ART H 492 Alternative Art Forms Since 1960 (5) VLPASurvey of "post-studio" art forms developed in the 1960s by artists who did not equate artmaking with painting, sculpture, or other traditional forms. Topics include: happenings, Fluxus, land projects, artists' video, artists, books, performance, site works, and art made for distribution on CD-ROM and on the web.
Art History^ART Architecture Since 1945 ART Architecture Since 1945 ART H 493 Architecture Since 1945 (3) VLPATheories and forms in architecture from the end of World War II to present. Includes new wave Japanese architects, recent Native American developments, and non-Western as well as Western trends. Offered: jointly with ARCH 459.
Art History^ART Paris: Architecture and Urbanism ART Paris: Architecture and Urbanism ART H 494 Paris: Architecture and Urbanism (3/5) VLPA/I&SSpans the architectural history of Paris, from its Gallic, pre-Roman origins in the second century BCE through the work of twenty-first century architects. Focuses on changing patterns of the physical fabric of the city and its buildings, as seen within the context of the broader political, social, economic, and cultural history. Offered: jointly with ARCH 458/JSIS A 433.
Art History^ART Italian Fascism: Architecture and Power ART Italian Fascism: Architecture and Power ART H 495 Italian Fascism: Architecture and Power (5) VLPA/I&SFascism in Italy as studied within the broader European context of nationalism, imperialism, and modernization, with particular emphasis on the arts - literature, film, architecture, and urbanism. Offered: jointly with ITAL 475.
Art History^ART Special Topics in Art in Rome ART Special Topics in Art in Rome ART H 497 Special Topics in Art in Rome (5, max. 10) VLPATopics in art and architecture in Rome and environs, studied from original works. Offered in Italy as part of the art history seminar in Rome. Topics vary. Site visits, field trips, and individual research projects.
Art History^ART Individual Projects, Undergraduate Practicum ART Individual Projects, Undergraduate Practicum ART H 498 Individual Projects, Undergraduate Practicum (2-5, max. 10)Fieldwork or internships in art-related areas in the community. Practical experience in areas such as arts administration, gallery and museum operations, collection cataloguing, curatorial responsibilities, and art education.
Art History^ART Individual Projects ART Individual Projects ART H 499 Individual Projects (2-5, max. 10)
Art History^ART Methods of Art History ART Methods of Art History ART H 500 Methods of Art History (5)Introduction to the specialized bibliography of art historical research and to the wide variety of approaches to art historical problems of all periods and regions.
Art History^ART Seminar in the General Field of Art ART Seminar in the General Field of Art ART H 501 Seminar in the General Field of Art (5, max. 15)
Art History^ART Methods of Art History: Faculty Research ART Methods of Art History: Faculty Research ART H 504 Methods of Art History: Faculty Research (2)Discussion and analysis of methodological issues posed in faculty research. Offered: W.
Art History^ART Seminar in Special Topics in Art History ART Seminar in Special Topics in Art History ART H 509 Seminar in Special Topics in Art History (5, max. 15)Specific focus changes from quarter to quarter.
Art History^ART Seminar in Chinese Art ART Seminar in Chinese Art ART H 511 Seminar in Chinese Art (5, max. 15)Critical appraisal of the principal research methods, theories, and types of literature dealing with the art of China.
Art History^ART Seminar in South Asian Art ART Seminar in South Asian Art ART H 514 Seminar in South Asian Art (5, max. 30) VLPA/I&SCritical appraisal of the principle research methods, theories, and types of literature dealing with the art of South Asia.
Art History^ART Seminar in Japanese Art ART Seminar in Japanese Art ART H 515 Seminar in Japanese Art (5, max. 15)Critical appraisal of the principal research methods, theories, and types of literature dealing with the art of Japan.
Art History^ART Topics in Tribal Art ART Topics in Tribal Art ART H 520 Topics in Tribal Art (5, max. 20)Investigates a series of variable topics in tribal art.
Art History^ART Topics in Asian Art ART Topics in Asian Art ART H 521 Topics in Asian Art (5, max. 20)Investigates a series of topics in Asian art.
Art History^ART Topics in Ancient, Classical, and Medieval Art ART Topics in Ancient, Classical, and Medieval Art ART H 522 Topics in Ancient, Classical, and Medieval Art (5, max. 20)Investigates a series of variable topics in ancient, classical, and medieval art.
Art History^ART Topics in Italian and Northern Renaissance Art ART Topics in Italian and Northern Renaissance Art ART H 523 Topics in Italian and Northern Renaissance Art (5, max. 20)Investigates a series of variable topics in Italian and Northern Renaissance art.
Art History^ART Topics in Baroque and Eighteenth Century Western Art ART Topics in Baroque and Eighteenth Century Western Art ART H 524 Topics in Baroque and Eighteenth Century Western Art (5, max. 20)Investigates a series of variable topics in baroque and eighteenth century Western art.
Art History^ART Topics in Modern and Contemporary Art and Architecture ART Topics in Modern and Contemporary Art and Architecture ART H 525 Topics in Modern and Contemporary Art and Architecture (5, max. 20)Investigates a series of variable topics in modern and contemporary art and architecture.
Art History^ART Seminar in Tribal Art ART Seminar in Tribal Art ART H 531 Seminar in Tribal Art (5, max. 15)Methodological and cross-disciplinary problems in the visual arts of precolonial Africa, Oceania, and America. Specific content varies.
Art History^ART Seminar in North American Native Art ART Seminar in North American Native Art ART H 533 Seminar in North American Native Art (5, max. 15)Problems in North American Indian visual arts. Content varies.
Art History^ART Seminar in Greek and Roman Art ART Seminar in Greek and Roman Art ART H 541 Seminar in Greek and Roman Art (5) S. LEVIN-RICHARDSON, K. TOPPERIn-depth study of selected topics and problems of the art of ancient Greece and Rome. Offered: jointly with CL AR 541.
Art History^ART Seminar in Early Christian, Byzantine, and/or Medieval Art and Architecture ART Seminar in Early Christian, Byzantine, and/or Medieval Art and Architecture ART H 551 Seminar in Early Christian, Byzantine, and/or Medieval Art and Architecture (5, max. 15)Problems in early Christian, Byzantine, and medieval art and architecture. Content varies.
Art History^ART Seminar in Italian Renaissance Art ART Seminar in Italian Renaissance Art ART H 561 Seminar in Italian Renaissance Art (5, max. 15)Problems and in-depth study of selected topics of the art of the Italian Renaissance.
Art History^ART Seminar in North European Art ART Seminar in North European Art ART H 566 Seminar in North European Art (5, max. 15)Deals with problems of style and iconography of the northern European masters of the fourteenth through seventeenth centuries.
Art History^ART Seminar in Baroque Art ART Seminar in Baroque Art ART H 577 Seminar in Baroque Art (5, max. 15)Iconographic and stylistic problems of the art of the Baroque period, with emphasis on the principal research methods, theories, and types of literature dealing with the art of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in Europe.
Art History^ART Seminar in Modern Art ART Seminar in Modern Art ART H 581 Seminar in Modern Art (5, max. 15)Art historical problems of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
Art History^ART Seminar in Criticism of Contemporary Art ART Seminar in Criticism of Contemporary Art ART H 590 Seminar in Criticism of Contemporary Art (5, max. 15)Contemporary art and appropriate critical methodology.
Art History^ART Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture ART Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture ART H 591 Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture (3/5)Specific focus changes from quarter to quarter.
Art History^ART Seminar in American Architecture ART Seminar in American Architecture ART H 592 Seminar in American Architecture (5) ClausenTopics vary. Offered: jointly with ARCH 555.
Art History^ART Graduate Internship ART Graduate Internship ART H 597 Graduate Internship (2-5, max. 5)Internship in the field of art history with a museum, gallery, or other faculty-approved art or architectural institution that can offer the student substantial research or curatorial experience.
Art History^ART Master's Practicum ART Master's Practicum ART H 598 Master's Practicum (*, max. 15)
Art History^ART Reading and Writing Projects ART Reading and Writing Projects ART H 599 Reading and Writing Projects (2)Art historical issues, methods, and materials. Required of all graduate majors registered in 400-level art history courses. Open also to graduate nonmajors.
Art History^ART Independent Study or Research ART Independent Study or Research ART H 600 Independent Study or Research (*-)
Art History^ART Master's Thesis ART Master's Thesis ART H 700 Master's Thesis (*-)
Art History^ART Doctoral Dissertation ART Doctoral Dissertation ART H 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-)
Medicine^C Undergraduate Laboratory Research C Undergraduate Laboratory Research C MED 499 Undergraduate Laboratory Research (1-6, max. 12) B. IRITANI, W. LADIGES, L. PRICE, M. RUDDELLSpecific problems in comparative medicine. Offered: AWSpS.
Medicine^C Introduction to the Anatomical Analysis of Animal Disease C Introduction to the Anatomical Analysis of Animal Disease C MED 512 Introduction to the Anatomical Analysis of Animal Disease (2, max. 10) J. SNYDER, P. TREUTINGUse of animals in experimental study of disease; techniques of animal necropsy, characterization, interpretation of gross and microscopic lesions, correlation of lesions with altered physiological processes, differentiation between naturally occurring and experimentally induced lesions.
Medicine^C Comparative Pathology Rounds C Comparative Pathology Rounds C MED 514 Comparative Pathology Rounds (1, max. 6) J. SNYDER, P. TREUTINGFocus on histopathology of naturally occurring and experimentally induced lesions of primates, laboratory and domestic animals, fish, wildlife, and birds. Participants discuss the lesions and the basic pathogenetic mechanisms that underline them.
Medicine^C Research and Literature Review Seminar C Research and Literature Review Seminar C MED 516 Research and Literature Review Seminar (1, max. 12) C. HSU, B. IRITANIAlternates between research seminars and literature review presentations. Research seminar topics relate to basic and translational animal models. Literature review seminars involve critical evaluation of recent articles on laboratory animal medicine and other scientific or medical topics.
Medicine^C Clinical Conference and Comparative Pathology Seminar C Clinical Conference and Comparative Pathology Seminar C MED 518 Clinical Conference and Comparative Pathology Seminar (1, max. 12) L. PRICE, P. TREUTINGAlternates between clinical veterinary medicine and comparative pathology discussions. Clinical discussions include case reports of spontaneous and induced diseases. Comparative pathology discussions cover gross and histopathology of natural occurring and experimentally induced lesions in laboratory animals and wildlife.
Medicine^C Biology of Laboratory Animals C Biology of Laboratory Animals C MED 520 Biology of Laboratory Animals (1) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTINGFundamentals of morphological, functional, and applied aspects of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, biochemistry, and immunology of commonly used laboratory animal species. Discusses similarities and differences within and between species, including humans. Other topics include husbandry, genetics, behavior, and nutrition.
Medicine^C Biology of Laboratory Animals C Biology of Laboratory Animals C MED 521 Biology of Laboratory Animals (1) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTINGFundamentals of the morphological, functional, and applied aspects of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, biochemistry, and immunology of the commonly used laboratory animal species. Similarities and differences within, and between, species, including humans are discussed. Other topics include husbandry, genetics, behavior, and nutrition.
Medicine^C Diseases of Laboratory Animals C Diseases of Laboratory Animals C MED 530 Diseases of Laboratory Animals (1-) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTINGAnalysis of etiology, pathogenesis, pathology, and disease processes in rodents, lagomorphs, carnivores, and nonhuman primates.
Medicine^C Diseases of Laboratory Animals C Diseases of Laboratory Animals C MED 531 Diseases of Laboratory Animals (1-) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTINGAnalysis of etiology, pathogenesis, pathology, and disease processes in rodents, lagomorphs, carnivores, and nonhuman primates.
Medicine^C Animal Models C Animal Models C MED 540 Animal Models (2) T. BRABB, G. HISH JR, C. HSU, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTINGNaturally occurring and experimentally induced analogs of human diseases in animals with emphasis on diseases lacking animal models, and approaches to identifying new models. Discusses animal models of categorical disease (e.g., cancer, atherosclerosis, gerontology).
Medicine^C Selected Topics in Animal Medicine C Selected Topics in Animal Medicine C MED 590 Selected Topics in Animal Medicine (1-5, max. 10) T. BRABB, L. COLBY, C. FREVERT, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTINGRadiation biology, genetics, anesthesiology and experimental surgery, preventive medicine, and ethical aspects of use of animals in biomedical teaching and research. Specific topics vary from year to year, depending on expertise of the annual visiting professor.
Medicine^C Comparative Pathology for the Scientist C Comparative Pathology for the Scientist C MED 592 Comparative Pathology for the Scientist (3) C. FREVERTIntroduces the interpretation of pathological changes in animals used for biomedical research, with a focus on the mouse. Covers study design and interpretation, techniques to measure pathological changes in major organ systems, plus other topical material related to preclinical drug studies and translational research.
Medicine^C Independent Study or Research C Independent Study or Research C MED 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS.
Medicine^C Internship Rotation - Laboratory Animal Medicine C Internship Rotation - Laboratory Animal Medicine C MED 601 Internship Rotation - Laboratory Animal Medicine (*-)
Medicine^C Master's Thesis C Master's Thesis C MED 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS.
Marketing^Marketing Essentials Marketing Essentials MKTG 275 Marketing Essentials (3) I&S BeardExplores marketing principles and their usefulness in diverse business and organizational settings. Discusses controllable and uncontrollable factors in making marketing decisions, and the implications of product life cycle for decision-making. Develops working knowledge of marketing strategy. Not open for credit to students pursuing a Business degree. Offered: A.
Marketing^Marketing Concepts Marketing Concepts MKTG 301 Marketing Concepts (4)Tools, factors, and concepts used by management in planning, establishing policies, and solving marketing problems. Marketing concepts, consumer demand and behavior, location analysis, marketing, functions, institutions, channels, prices, and public policy.
Marketing^Principles of Selling Principles of Selling MKTG 335 Principles of Selling (4)Focuses on selling from salesperson's perspective, role of persuasion in professional selling and other organizational settings. In addition to coursework in such areas as consumer behavior, negotiation, and communication, students practice sales skills in role plays, presentations, and other exercises requiring practical application of selling theory.
Marketing^Advertising Advertising MKTG 340 Advertising (4)Management of the advertising function and its integration with other forms of promotion. Planning the program, determining the most effective approach, evaluation of media and budget, advertising research, advertising institutions, economic and social aspects.
Marketing^Retailing Retailing MKTG 370 Retailing (4)Profit planning and business control; buying, stock control, pricing, promotion; store location, layout, organization, policies, systems; coordination of store activities.
Marketing^Product Management Product Management MKTG 410 Product Management (4)Covers the critical decisions and analyses associated with the management of successful products. A comprehensive simulation exercise provides an important context for application of product management strategies.
Marketing^Business to Business Marketing Business to Business Marketing MKTG 411 Business to Business Marketing (4) CaldieraroCovers the integrated marketing approach that enables a supplier firm to understand, create, and deliver value to other businesses, governments, and institutional customers. Case-based and project-oriented approach to studying marketing management in the business-to-business market that brings the fundamental concepts to life with practical example.
Marketing^Consumer Marketing and Brand Management Consumer Marketing and Brand Management MKTG 412 Consumer Marketing and Brand Management (4) ForehandFocuses on how consumers develop brand attitudes and how these attitudes guide behaviors. Devotes specific attention to the psychological processes that underlie brand attitude formation and the strategies necessary to build enduring brands. Case discussion and projects and real brands are heavily featured.
Marketing^Foundations of Pricing Strategy Foundations of Pricing Strategy MKTG 415 Foundations of Pricing Strategy (4) ShulmanExamines theoretical and applied perspectives in pricing strategy. Explores how firms optimally capture value and profit in the revenues that companies earn. Provides a rigorous foundation in making better pricing decisions.
Marketing^Sales Force Management Sales Force Management MKTG 430 Sales Force Management (4)Focuses on the role of the sales manager within the organization. Includes distribution planning, sales organization, management of the sales force, methods of sales, cost and financial analysis, and performance analysis.
Marketing^Multicultural Marketing and Business Development Multicultural Marketing and Business Development MKTG 445 Multicultural Marketing and Business Development (4) DIVIntegrates tools from marketing, consulting, and multi-cultural business management to provide consulting services to small business in economically-distressed communities. Working in teams with assistance from industry mentors and alumni from the course, students gain practical experience in multi-cultural marketing, consulting, and managing a business.
Marketing^Consumer Behavior Consumer Behavior MKTG 450 Consumer Behavior (4)Theory and practice pertinent to marketing decisions; utilization of theories from behavioral sciences in marking research; theories of fashion, characteristics of goods, shopping behavior, product differentiation, market segmentation, and opinion leadership; application of concepts to management of advertising, personal selling, pricing, and channels of distribution.
Marketing^Entrepreneurial Marketing Entrepreneurial Marketing MKTG 455 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4)Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap marketing in their start-up firms. Students learn to identify target market segments, position their products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage the issues of rapid growth.
Marketing^Marketing Research Marketing Research MKTG 460 Marketing Research (4)Examines marketing research process; steps of research design, questionnaire construction, sampling, data analysis, evaluation/presentation of findings, online research, and web surveys. Class project provides practical application.
Marketing^International Marketing International Marketing MKTG 470 International Marketing (4)Focuses on assessing international marketing opportunities, formulating and implementing international marketing strategies. Examines how to use marketing analyses and deductive decision modeling in assessing international marketing opportunities. Uses marketing tools and concepts in the planning, preparation, and presentation and discussion of cases and class project.
Marketing^Strategic Market Management Strategic Market Management MKTG 485 Strategic Market Management (4)Strategically analyzes important marketing issues by combining basic models of marketing with powerful spreadsheet analysis. Case discussions and projects provide valuable application exercises.
Marketing^Special Topics and Issues in Marketing Special Topics and Issues in Marketing MKTG 490 Special Topics and Issues in Marketing (1-6, max. 12)Contemporary topics and issues in marketing: marketing in nonprofit organizations, marketing of services, marketing in the public sector, and marketing in an economy of scarcity. Ordinarily only one topic area is addressed in any one quarter. Course content reflects contemporary developments and the current interests of instructors and students.
Marketing^Marketing Internship Marketing Internship MKTG 495 Marketing Internship (1-4, max. 8)An internship with a company, not for profit organization, or government agency in a marketing capacity.
Marketing^Marketing Practicum Marketing Practicum MKTG 496 Marketing Practicum (4) RhodesOffers opportunities to apply principles, concepts, and skills learned previously to actual business situations. Participation in class part-time and in an internship with a business employer part-time.
Marketing^Marketing Management Marketing Management MKTG 501 Marketing Management (4)Analysis and management of customer satisfaction in goods and services markets by profit and nonprofit organizations. Buyer behavior, market segmentation and product positioning, product policy, pricing, distribution, sales force and advertising management, and market research in the contexts of strategy development, decision making, implementation, and control.
Marketing^Marketing Strategy Marketing Strategy MKTG 505 Marketing Strategy (4)Focuses on the role of analytical marketing tools and competitive dynamics in strategy formation. Accentuates the integrative nature of marketing strategy through development of a strategic marketing plan and use of simulation software.
Marketing^New Product Development New Product Development MKTG 510 New Product Development (4)Integrates business, design, and engineering functions in the presentation and application of structures, tools, and methodologies important for successful new product development. New product development projects are accomplished with a cross-functional team emphasis.
Marketing^Business-to-Business Marketing Business-to-Business Marketing MKTG 511 Business-to-Business Marketing (4)Integrated approach to product marketing management in the business-to-business marketplace. Analysis of core competencies, competitive environment, positioning and segmentation strategies, cost structure, and customer satisfaction. Case-based and project-oriented approach to studying marketing management in the business-to-business market.
Marketing^Consumer Marketing and Brand Management Consumer Marketing and Brand Management MKTG 512 Consumer Marketing and Brand Management (4)Analysis of marketing strategies for consumer products and services. Focuses on consumer satisfaction and brand management including product line and brand developments, pricing strategies, channel and retail relationships, and marketing communication strategies for consumer goods and services.
Marketing^Pricing Strategies and Tactics Pricing Strategies and Tactics MKTG 515 Pricing Strategies and Tactics (4) ShulmanExamines theoretical and applied perspectives in pricing strategy and tactics. Explores how firms optimally capture value and profit in the revenues they earn. Provides students with a rigorous foundations from which to make better pricing decisions at the managerial level.
Marketing^Marketing Channels Marketing Channels MKTG 520 Marketing Channels (4)Channels of distribution decisions for goods and services in profit and nonprofit organizations. Considers methods of optimizing the number, quality of institutions and activities employed in dealing with exchange, and space and time aspects of channel management. Relates management of marketing channels to marketing mix, organizational objectives.
Marketing^Managing the Sales System Managing the Sales System MKTG 530 Managing the Sales System (4)Examines the revenue generation function of a firm from a system-wide perspective. Topics include strategic and tactical considerations related to customer acquisition and retention, end-to-end sales and support operations, strategic partnerships, and continuous performance monitoring. Emphasis on case studies and team projects.
Marketing^Advertising and Promotion Management Advertising and Promotion Management MKTG 540 Advertising and Promotion Management (4)Management of advertising and promotional activities and their integration with other elements of the marketing mix. Topics include: understanding the communication process, analyzing markets, working with suppliers, establishing objectives, determining budgets, selecting media, measuring and evaluating effectiveness, using publicity and promotions. Legal, social, and economic consequences are considered.
Marketing^Managing Customer Relationships Through Direct Marketing Managing Customer Relationships Through Direct Marketing MKTG 550 Managing Customer Relationships Through Direct Marketing (4)Management of customer relationships through the lens of direct marketing. Topics include direct marketing creative activity, strategy, and execution; media and segmentation; direct marketing budgeting and financials; targeting, database, and predictive modeling; catalogue marketing; relationship marketing; business-to-business complex sales; privacy.
Marketing^Entrepreneurial Marketing Entrepreneurial Marketing MKTG 555 Entrepreneurial Marketing (4)Examines the skills and tools entrepreneurs need for bootstrap or guerilla early-stage companies. Covers how to target market segments, position products, estimate demand, set prices, gain access to channels, and manage issues of rapid growth.
Marketing^Research for Marketing Decisions Research for Marketing Decisions MKTG 560 Research for Marketing Decisions (4)Methods and applications of marketing research to solve marketing problems. Deals with: problem definition, research design, questionnaire construction, sampling, and data analysis using SPSS. Introduces promising new developments in online research, web surveys, and data analysis. Class research project provides practical application.
Marketing^Data Driven Marketing Data Driven Marketing MKTG 565 Data Driven Marketing (4)Provides tools and methods targeting data available to marketers deciding on issues such as pricing, online advertising, or other data-driven marketing strategies. Explores how to leverage data correctly to achieve goals of firms. Focuses on secondary data originating from consumer behavior.
Marketing^International Marketing International Marketing MKTG 570 International Marketing (4)Analysis of the marketing strategies and tactics of multinational corporations. Choice of entry strategies for foreign markets, analyzing international competition at home and abroad, and developing global marketing strategies.
Marketing^Marketing High-Technology Products Marketing High-Technology Products MKTG 575 Marketing High-Technology Products (4)Management of the marketing requirements of high-technology products. Examines how markets for high-tech products involve shortened product life cycles, demand for continual product updates, perceived risk of adoption by customers, requirements for intensive customer service and relationships, and growing reliance on business partners.
Marketing^Special Topics in Marketing Special Topics in Marketing MKTG 579 Special Topics in Marketing (2/4, max. 12)Marketing topics of current concern to faculty and students. Offered only when allowed by faculty availability and sufficient student interest. Seminar content to be announced in advance of scheduled offerings.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior MKTG 581 Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior (4)Survey of the field of consumer behavior introduces fundamental topics in consumer behavior including cognitive processes, emotion, and consumer satisfaction. Provides exposure to a variety of research methods including experiments, surveys, and phenomenological research.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Multivariate Analysis for Marketing Research Doctoral Seminar in Multivariate Analysis for Marketing Research MKTG 582 Doctoral Seminar in Multivariate Analysis for Marketing Research (4)Survey of methods useful for empirical evaluation of multivariate marketing phenomena and relationships. Includes an overview of measurement theory and practice; multidimensional scaling; conjoint analysis; cluster, factor, and discriminant analyses; multivariate analysis of variance; structural equation modeling; and other methods commonly encountered in academic marketing research.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Strategy Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Strategy MKTG 583 Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Strategy (4)Study of factors influencing business performance and role of marketing in achieving competitive advantage. Analysis of prevailing, and emerging, theories underlying strategic thinking and competitive process. Examination of empirical research regarding measurement, level, and persistence of business success and implications of findings for theory and strategy development.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Research Issues in Marketing Doctoral Seminar in Research Issues in Marketing MKTG 584 Doctoral Seminar in Research Issues in Marketing (4)Examination of research problems and issues in marketing. Specific topics vary depending on the interest of faculty and students.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior Research Topics Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior Research Topics MKTG 591 Doctoral Seminar in Consumer Behavior Research Topics (4)Investigates research topics of current interest in consumer behavior. Considers the processes used by consumers to acquire and evaluate marketing information including advertising, publicity, word of mouth, packaging, product description, price, and retail outlets, and examines ways the principles in social perception influence consumers' individual responses to marketing-related activities.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Models Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Models MKTG 593 Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Models (4)Focuses on modeling research efforts in various areas of marketing. Discussion of mathematical and statistical modeling approaches which contribute to scientific development in the marketing area and ways in which modeling is used to characterize and summarize the nature of general marketing situations in complex environments.
Marketing^Doctoral Seminar in Marketing Doctoral Seminar in Marketing MKTG 599 Doctoral Seminar in Marketing (1, max. 12)Study and research in advanced topics of marketing. The seminar is generally concerned with unpublished areas of research and conducted by visiting professors and departmental faculty.
Math^Intermediate Algebra Intermediate Algebra MATH 098 Intermediate Algebra (0)Intermediate algebra equivalent to third semester of high school algebra. Includes linear equations and models, linear systems in two variables, quadratic equations, completing the square, graphing parabolas, inequalities, working with roots and radicals, distance formula, functions and graphs, exponential and logarithmic functions. Instruction provided by community colleges on UW campus. Extra fee required. Offered: AWSp.
Math^Algebra Algebra MATH 100 Algebra (5)Similar to the first three terms of high school algebra. Assumes no previous experience in algebra. Open only to students [1] in the Educational Opportunity Program or [2] admitted with an entrance deficiency in mathematics. Offered: AWSp.
Math^Algebra Algebra MATH 102 Algebra (5)Similar to the first three terms of high school algebra. Assumes no previous experience in algebra. Open only to students [1] in the Educational Opportunity Program or [2] admitted with an entrance deficiency in mathematics.
Math^Introduction to Elementary Functions Introduction to Elementary Functions MATH 103 Introduction to Elementary Functions (5)Continues the study of algebra begun in MATH 100 and MATH 102 with emphasis on functions (polynomial, rational, logarithmic, exponential, and trigonometric). Open only to students who have completed MATH 102.
Math^Algebra with Applications Algebra with Applications MATH 111 Algebra with Applications (5) NW, QSRUse of graphs and algebraic functions as found in business and economics. Algebraic and graphical manipulations to solve problems. Exponential and logarithm functions; various applications to growth of money.
Math^Application of Calculus to Business and Economics Application of Calculus to Business and Economics MATH 112 Application of Calculus to Business and Economics (5) NW, QSRRates of change, tangent, derivative, accumulation, area, integrals in specific contexts, particularly economics. Techniques of differentiation and integration. Application to problem solving. Optimization. Credit does not apply toward a mathematics major.
Math^Precalculus Precalculus MATH 120 Precalculus (5) NWBasic properties of functions, graphs; with emphasis on linear, quadratic, trigonometric, exponential functions and their inverses. Emphasis on multi-step problem solving.
Math^Calculus with Analytic Geometry I Calculus with Analytic Geometry I MATH 124 Calculus with Analytic Geometry I (5) NW, QSRFirst quarter in calculus of functions of a single variable. Emphasizes differential calculus. Emphasizes applications and problem solving using the tools of calculus.
Math^Calculus with Analytic Geometry II Calculus with Analytic Geometry II MATH 125 Calculus with Analytic Geometry II (5) NWSecond quarter in the calculus of functions of a single variable. Emphasizes integral calculus. Emphasizes applications and problem solving using the tools of calculus.
Math^Calculus with Analytic Geometry III Calculus with Analytic Geometry III MATH 126 Calculus with Analytic Geometry III (5) NWThird quarter in calculus sequence. Introduction to Taylor polynomials and Taylor series, vector geometry in three dimensions, introduction to multivariable differential calculus, double integrals in Cartesian and polar coordinates.
Math^Accelerated [Honors] Calculus Accelerated [Honors] Calculus MATH 134 Accelerated [Honors] Calculus (5) NW, QSRCovers the material of MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126; MATH 307, MATH 308. First year of a two-year accelerated sequence. May receive advanced placement (AP) credit for MATH 124 after taking MATH 134. For students with above average preparation, interest, and ability in mathematics. Offered: A.
Math^Accelerated [Honors] Calculus Accelerated [Honors] Calculus MATH 135 Accelerated [Honors] Calculus (5) NWCovers the material of MATH 124, MATH125, MATH 126; MATH 307, MATH 308. First year of a two-year accelerated sequence. May receive advanced placement (AP) credit for MATH 125 after taking MATH 135. For students with above average preparation, interest, and ability in mathematics. Offered: W.
Math^Accelerated [Honors] Calculus Accelerated [Honors] Calculus MATH 136 Accelerated [Honors] Calculus (5) NWCovers the material of MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126; MATH 307, MATH 308. First year of a two-year accelerated sequence. May not receive credit for both MATH 126 and MATH 136. For students with above average preparation, interest, and ability in mathematics. Offered: Sp.
Math^Problem Solving in Mathematics Problem Solving in Mathematics MATH 197 Problem Solving in Mathematics (2, max. 4) NWLectures and problem sessions in mathematics with applications. Enrollment restricted to EOP students only. Offered: AWSp.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics MATH 198 Special Topics in Mathematics (1-5, max. 15)Independent reading in math. Does not count as credit toward a math major. Offered: AWSpS.
Math^Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning MATH 300 Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning (3) NWMathematical arguments and the writing of proofs in an elementary setting. Elementary set theory, elementary examples of functions and operations on functions, the principle of induction, counting, elementary number theory, elementary combinatorics, recurrence relations.
Math^Elementary Number Theory Elementary Number Theory MATH 301 Elementary Number Theory (3) NWBrief introduction to some of the fundamental ideas of elementary number theory.
Math^Introduction to Differential Equations Introduction to Differential Equations MATH 307 Introduction to Differential Equations (3) NWIntroductory course in ordinary differential equations. Includes first- and second-order equations and Laplace transform.
Math^Matrix Algebra with Applications Matrix Algebra with Applications MATH 308 Matrix Algebra with Applications (3) NWSystems of linear equations, vector spaces, matrices, subspaces, orthogonality, least squares, eigenvalues, eigenvectors, applications. For students in engineering, mathematics, and the sciences.
Math^Linear Analysis Linear Analysis MATH 309 Linear Analysis (3) NWFirst order systems of linear differential equations, Fourier series and partial differential equations, and the phase plane.
Math^Advanced Multivariable Calculus I Advanced Multivariable Calculus I MATH 324 Advanced Multivariable Calculus I (3) NWTopics include double and triple integrals, the chain rule, vector fields, line and surface integrals. Culminates in the theorems of Green and Stokes, along with the Divergence Theorem.
Math^Introductory Real Analysis I Introductory Real Analysis I MATH 327 Introductory Real Analysis I (3) NWLimits and continuity of functions, sequences, series tests, absolute convergence, uniform convergence. Power series, improper integrals, uniform continuity, fundamental theorems on continuous functions, theory of the Riemann integral.
Math^Introductory Real Analysis II Introductory Real Analysis II MATH 328 Introductory Real Analysis II (3) NWLimits and continuity of functions, sequences, series tests, absolute convergence, uniform convergence. Power series, improper integrals, uniform continuity, fundamental theorems on continuous functions, theory of the Riemann integral.
Math^Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus MATH 334 Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus (5) NWIntroduction to proofs and rigor; uniform convergence, Fourier series and partial differential equations, vector calculus, complex variables. Students who complete this sequence are not required to take MATH 300, MATH 309, MATH 324, MATH 327, MATH 328, and MATH 427. Second year of an accelerated two-year sequence; prepares students for senior-level mathematics courses.
Math^Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus MATH 335 Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus (5) NWIntroduction to proofs and rigor; uniform convergence, Fourier series and partial differential equations, vector calculus, complex variables. Students who complete this sequence are not required to take MATH 300, MATH 309, MATH 324, MATH 327, MATH 328, and MATH 427. Second year of an accelerated two-year sequence; prepares students for senior-level mathematics courses.
Math^Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus MATH 336 Accelerated [Honors] Advanced Calculus (5) NWIntroduction to proofs and rigor; uniform convergence, Fourier series and partial differential equations, vector calculus, complex variables. Students who complete this sequence are not required to take MATH 300, MATH 309, MATH 324, MATH 327, MATH 328, and MATH 427. Second year of an accelerated two-year sequence; prepares students for senior-level mathematics courses.
Math^Abstract Linear Algebra Abstract Linear Algebra MATH 340 Abstract Linear Algebra (3) NWLinear algebra from a theoretical point of view. Abstract vector spaces and linear transformations, bases and linear independence, matrix representations, Jordan canonical form, linear functionals, dual space, bilinear forms and inner product spaces.
Math^Intermediate Topics in Undergraduate Mathematics Intermediate Topics in Undergraduate Mathematics MATH 380 Intermediate Topics in Undergraduate Mathematics (3, max. 12) NWCovers intermediate topics in undergraduate mathematics.
Math^Discrete Mathematical Modeling Discrete Mathematical Modeling MATH 381 Discrete Mathematical Modeling (3) NWIntroduction to methods of discrete mathematics, including topics from graph theory, network flows, and combinatorics. Emphasis on these tools to formulate models and solve problems arising in variety of applications, such as computer science, biology, and management science.
Math^Statistical Methods in Engineering and Science Statistical Methods in Engineering and Science MATH 390 Statistical Methods in Engineering and Science (4) NWConcepts of probability and statistics. Conditional probability, independence, random variables, distribution functions. Descriptive statistics, transformations, sampling errors, confidence intervals, least squares and maximum likelihood. Exploratory data analysis and interactive computing. Students may receive credit for only one of STAT 390, STAT 481/ECON 481, and ECON 580.
Math^Probability I Probability I MATH 394 Probability I (3) NWSample spaces; basic axioms of probability; combinatorial probability; conditional probability and independence; binomial, Poisson, and normal distributions.
Math^Probability II Probability II MATH 395 Probability II (3) NWRandom variables; expectation and variance; laws of large numbers; normal approximation and other limit theorems; multidimensional distributions and transformations.
Math^Probability III Probability III MATH 396 Probability III (3) NWCharacteristic functions and generating functions; recurrent events and renewal theory; random walk.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics MATH 398 Special Topics in Mathematics (1-5, max. 15)Independent reading in math. Does not count as credit toward a math major. Offered: AWSpS.
Math^Introduction to Modern Algebra Introduction to Modern Algebra MATH 402 Introduction to Modern Algebra (3) NWElementary theory of groups: Cosets and Lagrange's theorem. Homomorphisms, normal subgroups, quotient groups, and the fundamental isomorphism theorems. Cyclic and symmetric groups. Orders and Cauchy's theorem. Direct products. Automorphisms.
Math^Introduction to Modern Algebra Introduction to Modern Algebra MATH 403 Introduction to Modern Algebra (3) NWElementary theory of rings and fields: polynomial rings. Ideals, homomorphisms, quotients, and fundamental isomorophism theorems. Fields and maximal ideals. Euclidean rings. Field extensions. Algebraic extensions. Vector spaces and degrees of extensions. Adjoining roots of polynomials. Finite fields. Straight edge and compass constructions.
Math^Introduction to Modern Algebra Introduction to Modern Algebra MATH 404 Introduction to Modern Algebra (3) NWTopics in algebra chosen from Galois theory, theory of modules, geometric group actions, and the theory of rings and fields. Specific content determined by instructor.
Math^Linear Optimization Linear Optimization MATH 407 Linear Optimization (3) NWMaximization and minimization of linear functions subject to constraints consisting of linear equations and inequalities; linear programming and mathematical modeling. Simplex method, elementary games and duality.
Math^Nonlinear Optimization Nonlinear Optimization MATH 408 Nonlinear Optimization (3) NWMaximization and minimization of nonlinear functions, constrained and unconstrained; nonlinear programming problems and methods. Lagrange multipliers; Kuhn-Tucker conditions, convexity. Quadratic programming.
Math^Discrete Optimization Discrete Optimization MATH 409 Discrete Optimization (3) NWMaximization and minimization problems in graphs and networks (shortest paths, minimum spanning trees, maximum flows, minimum cost flows); transportation and trans-shipment problems, NP-completeness.
Math^Introduction to Modern Algebra for Teachers Introduction to Modern Algebra for Teachers MATH 411 Introduction to Modern Algebra for Teachers (3) NWBasic concepts of abstract algebra with an emphasis on problem solving, constructing proofs, and communication of mathematical ideas. Designed for teaching majors; not open for credit to students who have taken MATH 402, MATH 403. Cannot be used as elective credit for either BS program in mathematics.
Math^Introduction to Modern Algebra for Teachers Introduction to Modern Algebra for Teachers MATH 412 Introduction to Modern Algebra for Teachers (3) NWBasic concepts of abstract algebra with an emphasis on problem solving, constructing proofs, and communication of mathematical ideas. Designed for teaching majors; not open for credit to students who have taken MATH 402, MATH 403. Cannot be used as elective credit for either BS program in mathematics.
Math^History of Mathematics History of Mathematics MATH 420 History of Mathematics (3) NWSurvey of the development of mathematics from its earliest beginnings through the first half of the twentieth century.
Math^Fundamental Concepts of Analysis Fundamental Concepts of Analysis MATH 424 Fundamental Concepts of Analysis (3) NWThe real number system; field, order, and LUB axioms. Metric spaces: Euclidean space. Bolzano-Weierstrass property. Sequences and limits of sequences. Cauchy sequences and completeness. The Heine-Borel Theorem. Uniform continuity. Connected sets and the intermediate value theorem.
Math^Fundamental Concepts of Analysis Fundamental Concepts of Analysis MATH 425 Fundamental Concepts of Analysis (3) NWOne-variable differential calculus: chain rule, inverse function theorem, Rolle's theorem, intermediate value theorem, Taylor's theorem, and intermediate value theorem for derivatives. Multivariable differential calculus: mean value theorem, inverse and implicit function theorems, and Lagrange multipliers.
Math^Fundamental Concepts of Analysis Fundamental Concepts of Analysis MATH 426 Fundamental Concepts of Analysis (3) NWLebesgue measure on the reals. Construction of the Lebesgue integral and its basic properties. Monotone Convergence Theorem, Fatou's Lemma, and Dominated Convergence Theorem. Integration of series. Continuity and differentiability theorems for functions defined by integrals. Introduction to general measures and integration.
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis MATH 427 Complex Analysis (3) NWComplex numbers; analytic functions; sequences and series; complex integration; Cauchy integral formula; Taylor and Laurent series; uniform convergence; residue theory; conformal mapping. Topics chosen from: Fourier series and integrals, Laplace transforms, infinite products, complex dynamics; additional topics chose by instructor.
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis MATH 428 Complex Analysis (3) NWContinuation of MATH 427.
Math^Topology Topology MATH 441 Topology (3) NWMetric and topological spaces, convergence, continuity, finite products, connectedness, and compactness.
Math^Differential Geometry Differential Geometry MATH 442 Differential Geometry (3) NWExamines curves in the plane and 3-spaces, surfaces in 3-space, tangent planes, first and second fundamental forms, curvature, the Gauss-Bonnet Theorem, and possible other selected topics.
Math^Differential Geometry Differential Geometry MATH 443 Differential Geometry (3) NW J. ARMS, E. DEVINATZFurther examines curves in the plane and 3-spaces, surfaces in 3-space, tangent planes, first and second fundamental forms, curvature, the Gauss-Bonnet Theorem, and possible other selected topics.
Math^Geometry for Teachers Geometry for Teachers MATH 444 Geometry for Teachers (3) NWConcepts of geometry from multiple approaches; discovery, formal and informal reasoning, transformations, coordinates, exploration using computers and models. Topics selected from Euclidean plane and space geometry, spherical geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, fractal geometry. Designed for teaching majors. Cannot be used as elective credit for either BS program in mathematics.
Math^Geometry for Teachers Geometry for Teachers MATH 445 Geometry for Teachers (3) NWConcepts of geometry from multiple approaches; discovery, formal and informal reasoning, transformations, coordinates, exploration using computers and models. Topics selected from Euclidean plane and space geometry, spherical geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, fractal geometry. Designed for teaching majors. Cannot be used as elective credit for either BS program in mathematics.
Math^Combinatorial Theory Combinatorial Theory MATH 461 Combinatorial Theory (3) NWSelected topics from among: block designs and finite geometries, coding theory, generating functions and other enumeration methods, graph theory, matroid theory, combinatorial algorithms, applications of combinatorics.
Math^Combinatorial Theory Combinatorial Theory MATH 462 Combinatorial Theory (3) NWSelected topics from among: block designs and finite geometries, coding theory, generating functions and other enumeration methods, graph theory, matroid theory, combinatorial algorithms, applications of combinatorics.
Math^Numerical Analysis I Numerical Analysis I MATH 464 Numerical Analysis I (3) NWBasic principles of numerical analysis, classical interpolation and approximation formulas, finite differences and difference equations. Numerical methods in algebra, systems of linear equations, matrix inversion, successive approximations, iterative and relaxation methods. Numerical differentiation and integration. Solution of differential equations and systems of such equations.
Math^Numerical Analysis II Numerical Analysis II MATH 465 Numerical Analysis II (3) NWBasic principles of numerical analysis, classical interpolation and approximation formulas, finite differences and difference equations. Numerical methods in algebra, systems of linear equations, matrix inversion, successive approximations, iterative and relaxation methods. Numerical differentiation and integration. Solution of differential equations and systems of such equations.
Math^Numerical Analysis III Numerical Analysis III MATH 466 Numerical Analysis III (3) NWBasic principles of numerical analysis, classical interpolation and approximation formulas, finite differences and difference equations. Numerical methods in algebra, systems of linear equations, matrix inversion, successive approximations, iterative and relaxation methods. Numerical differentiation and integration. Solution of differential equations and systems of such equations.
Math^Advanced Topics in Undergraduate Mathematics Advanced Topics in Undergraduate Mathematics MATH 480 Advanced Topics in Undergraduate Mathematics (3, max. 12)Covers advanced topics in undergraduate mathematics.
Math^Introduction to Stochastic Processes Introduction to Stochastic Processes MATH 491 Introduction to Stochastic Processes (3) NWRandom walks, Markov chains, branching processes, Poisson process, point processes, birth and death processes, queuing theory, stationary processes.
Math^Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing MATH 492 Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing (3) NWIntroductory stochastic calculus mathematical foundation for pricing options and derivatives. Basic stochastic analysis tools, including stochastic integrals, stochastic differential equations, Ito's formula, theorems of Girsanov and Feynman-Kac, Black-Scholes option pricing, American and exotic options, bond options.
Math^Honors Senior Thesis Honors Senior Thesis MATH 496 Honors Senior Thesis (1-5) NWProblem seminar for Honors students. Cannot be repeated for credit. Offered: AWSp.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics MATH 498 Special Topics in Mathematics (1-5, max. 15)Reading and lecture course intended for special needs of advanced students. Offered: AWSpS.
Math^Modern Algebra Modern Algebra MATH 504 Modern Algebra (5)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering group theory; field theory and Galois theory; commutative rings and modules, linear algebra, theory of forms; representation theory, associative rings and modules; commutative algebra and elementary algebraic geometry.
Math^Modern Algebra Modern Algebra MATH 505 Modern Algebra (5)Continuation of MATH 504.
Math^Modern Algebra Modern Algebra MATH 506 Modern Algebra (5)Continuation of MATH 505.
Math^Algebraic Geometry Algebraic Geometry MATH 507 Algebraic Geometry (3)First quarter of a two-quarter sequence covering the basic theory of affine and projective varieties, rings of functions, the Hilbert Nullstellensatz, localization, and dimension; the theory of algebraic curves, divisors, cohomology, genus, and the Riemann-Roch theorem; and related topics.
Math^Algebraic Geometry Algebraic Geometry MATH 508 Algebraic Geometry (3)Continuation of MATH 507.
Math^Theory of Optimal Control Theory of Optimal Control MATH 509 Theory of Optimal Control (3)Trajectories from ordinary differential equations with control variables. Controllability, optimality, maximum principle. Relaxation and existence of solutions. Techniques of nonsmooth analysis.
Math^Seminar in Algebra Seminar in Algebra MATH 510 Seminar in Algebra (2-5, max. 12)
Math^Networks and Combinatorial Optimization Networks and Combinatorial Optimization MATH 514 Networks and Combinatorial Optimization (3)Mathematical foundations of combinatorial and network optimization with an emphasis on structure and algorithms with proofs. Topics include combinatorial and geometric methods for optimization of network flows, matching, traveling salesmen problem, cuts, and stable sets on graphs. Special emphasis on connections to linear and integer programming, duality theory, total unimodularity, and matroids.
Math^Fundamentals of Optimization Fundamentals of Optimization MATH 515 Fundamentals of Optimization (5)Maximization and minimization of functions of finitely many variables subject to constraints. Basic problem types and examples of applications; linear, convex, smooth, and nonsmooth programming. Optimality conditions. Saddlepoints and dual problems. Penalties, decomposition. Overview of computational approaches.
Math^Numerical Optimization Numerical Optimization MATH 516 Numerical Optimization (3)Methods of solving optimization problems in finitely many variables, with or without constraints. Steepest descent, quasi-Newton methods. Quadratic programming and complementarity. Exact penalty methods, multiplier methods. Sequential quadratic programming. Cutting planes and nonsmooth optimization.
Math^Advanced Probability Advanced Probability MATH 521 Advanced Probability (3)Measure theory and integration, independence, laws of large numbers. Fourier analysis of distributions, central limit problem and infinitely divisible laws, conditional expectations, martingales.
Math^Advanced Probability Advanced Probability MATH 522 Advanced Probability (3)Measure theory and integration, independence, laws of large numbers. Fourier analysis of distributions, central limit problem and infinitely divisible laws, conditional expectations, martingales.
Math^Advanced Probability Advanced Probability MATH 523 Advanced Probability (3)Measure theory and integration, independence, laws of large numbers. Fourier analysis of distributions, central limit problem and infinitely divisible laws, conditional expectations, martingales.
Math^Real Analysis Real Analysis MATH 524 Real Analysis (5)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering the theory of measure and integration, point set topology, Banach spaces, Lp spaces, applications to the theory of functions of one and several real variables. Additional topics to be chosen by instructor.
Math^Real Analysis Real Analysis MATH 525 Real Analysis (5)Continuation of MATH 524.
Math^Real Analysis Real Analysis MATH 526 Real Analysis (5)Continuation of MATH 525.
Math^Functional Analysis Functional Analysis MATH 527 Functional Analysis (3)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence. Review of Banach, Hilbert, and Lp spaces; locally convex spaces (duality and separation theory, distributions, and function spaces); operators on locally convex spaces (adjoints, closed graph/open mapping and Banach-Steinhaus theorems); Banach algebras (spectral theory, elementary applications); spectral theorem for Hilbert space operators. Additional topics chosen by instructor. A working knowledge of real variables, general topology, and complex variables is assumed.
Math^Functional Analysis Functional Analysis MATH 528 Functional Analysis (3)Continuation of MATH 527.
Math^Functional Analysis Functional Analysis MATH 529 Functional Analysis (3)Continuation of MATH 528.
Math^Seminar in Analysis Seminar in Analysis MATH 530 Seminar in Analysis (2-5, max. 12)
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis MATH 534 Complex Analysis (5)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering complex numbers, analytic functions, contour integration, power series, analytic continuation, sequences of analytic functions, conformal mapping of simply connected regions, and related topics.
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis MATH 535 Complex Analysis (5)Continuation of MATH 534.
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis MATH 536 Complex Analysis (5)Continuation of MATH 535.
Math^Topology and Geometry of Manifolds Topology and Geometry of Manifolds MATH 544 Topology and Geometry of Manifolds (5)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering general topology, the fundamental group, covering spaces, topological and differentiable manifolds, vector fields, flows, the Frobenius theorem, Lie groups, homogeneous spaces, tensor fields, differential forms, Stokes's theorem, deRham cohomology.
Math^Topology and Geometry of Manifolds Topology and Geometry of Manifolds MATH 545 Topology and Geometry of Manifolds (5)Continuation of MATH 544.
Math^Topology and Geometry of Manifolds Topology and Geometry of Manifolds MATH 546 Topology and Geometry of Manifolds (5)Continuation of MATH 545.
Math^Geometric Structures Geometric Structures MATH 547 Geometric Structures (3, max. 9)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering differential-geometric structures on manifolds, Riemannian metrics, geodesics, covariant differentiation, curvature, Jacobi fields, Gauss-Bonnet theorem. Additional topics to be chosen by the instructor, such as connections in vector bundles and principal bundles, symplectic geometry, Riemannian comparison theorems, symmetric spaces, symplectic geometry, complex manifolds, Hodge theory.
Math^Geometric Structures Geometric Structures MATH 548 Geometric Structures (3, max. 9)Continuation of MATH 547.
Math^Geometric Structures Geometric Structures MATH 549 Geometric Structures (3, max. 9)Continuation of MATH 548.
Math^Seminar in Geometry Seminar in Geometry MATH 550 Seminar in Geometry (2-5, max. 12)
Math^Linear Analysis Linear Analysis MATH 554 Linear Analysis (5)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering advanced linear algebra and matrix analysis, ordinary differential equations (existence and uniqueness theory, linear systems, numerical approximations), Fourier analysis, introductions to functional analysis and partial differential equations, distribution theory.
Math^Linear Analysis Linear Analysis MATH 555 Linear Analysis (5)Continuation of MATH 554.
Math^Linear Analysis Linear Analysis MATH 556 Linear Analysis (5)Continuation of MATH 555.
Math^Introduction to Partial Differential Equations Introduction to Partial Differential Equations MATH 557 Introduction to Partial Differential Equations (3)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence. Reviews the theory of distribution theory, weak derivatives, and Fourier transform; Laplace, heat, wave, Schrodinger equations; and notion of Euler-Lagrange equation and variational derivative.
Math^Introduction to Partial Differential Equations Introduction to Partial Differential Equations MATH 558 Introduction to Partial Differential Equations (3)Continuation of MATH 557. Covers Sobolev spaces; boundary value problems; additional topics may include: Cauchy-Kowalevski theorem, first order equations, initial value problems, and variational methods.
Math^Introduction to Partial Differential Equations Introduction to Partial Differential Equations MATH 559 Introduction to Partial Differential Equations (3)Continuation of MATH 558. Covers selected topics such as: introduction to microlocal analysis, Lax parametrix construction, Schauder estimates, Calderson-Zygmund theory, energy methods, and boundary regularity on rough domains.
Math^Algebraic Topology Algebraic Topology MATH 564 Algebraic Topology (3)First quarter of a three-quarter sequence covering classical and modern approaches; complexes and their homology theory; applications; fixed points, products and Poincare duality; axiomatic approach.
Math^Algebraic Topology Algebraic Topology MATH 565 Algebraic Topology (3)Continuation of MATH 564.
Math^Algebraic Topology Algebraic Topology MATH 566 Algebraic Topology (3)Continuation of MATH 565.
Math^Seminar in Topology Seminar in Topology MATH 570 Seminar in Topology (2-5, max. 12)
Math^Fundamental Concepts of Analysis Fundamental Concepts of Analysis MATH 574 Fundamental Concepts of Analysis (3)Sets, real numbers, topology of metric spaces, normed linear spaces, multivariable calculus from an advanced viewpoint. Introduction to Lebesque measure and integration. Intended for students in biostatistics and related fields; does not fulfill requirements for degrees in mathematics.
Math^Fundamental Concepts of Analysis Fundamental Concepts of Analysis MATH 575 Fundamental Concepts of Analysis (3)Sets, real numbers, topology of metric spaces, normed linear spaces, multivariable calculus from an advanced viewpoint. Introduction to Lebesque measure and integration. Intended for students in biostatistics and related fields; does not fulfill requirements for degrees in mathematics.
Math^Fundamental Concepts of Analysis Fundamental Concepts of Analysis MATH 576 Fundamental Concepts of Analysis (3)Sets, real numbers, topology of metric spaces, normed linear spaces, multivariable calculus from an advanced viewpoint. Introduction to Lebesque measure and integration. Intended for students in biostatistics and related fields; does not fulfill requirements for degrees in mathematics.
Math^Lie Groups and Lie Algebras Lie Groups and Lie Algebras MATH 577 Lie Groups and Lie Algebras (3, max. 9)Topics chosen from: root systems and reflection groups; the structure, classification, and representation theory of complex semisimple Lie algebras, compact Lie groups, or semisimple Lie groups; algebraic groups; enveloping algebras; infinite-dimensional representation theory of Lie groups and Lie algebras; harmonic analysis on Lie groups.
Math^Lie Groups and Lie Algebras Lie Groups and Lie Algebras MATH 578 Lie Groups and Lie Algebras (3, max. 9)Topics chosen from: root systems and reflection groups; the structure, classification, and representation theory of complex semisimple Lie algebras, compact Lie groups, or semisimple Lie groups; algebraic groups; enveloping algebras; infinite-dimensional representation theory of Lie groups and Lie algebras; harmonic analysis on Lie groups.
Math^Lie Groups and Lie Algebras Lie Groups and Lie Algebras MATH 579 Lie Groups and Lie Algebras (3, max. 9)Topics chosen from: root systems and reflection groups; the structure, classification, and representation theory of complex semisimple Lie algebras, compact Lie groups, or semisimple Lie groups; algebraic groups; enveloping algebras; infinite-dimensional representation theory of Lie groups and Lie algebras; harmonic analysis on Lie groups.
Math^Current Topics in Mathematics Current Topics in Mathematics MATH 580 Current Topics in Mathematics (2, max. 12)Discussion of current research topics in mathematics, with emphasis on current departmental research projects and interests. Offered: AWSp.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics MATH 581 Special Topics in Mathematics (1-5, max. 36)Advanced topics in various areas of mathematics. Offered: A.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics MATH 582 Special Topics in Mathematics (1-5, max. 36)Advanced topics in various areas of mathematics. Offered: W.
Math^Special Topics in Mathematics Special Topics in Mathematics MATH 583 Special Topics in Mathematics (1-5, max. 36)Advanced topics in various areas of mathematics. Offered: Sp.
Math^Applied Linear Algebra and Introductory Numerical Analysis Applied Linear Algebra and Introductory Numerical Analysis MATH 584 Applied Linear Algebra and Introductory Numerical Analysis (5)Numerical methods for solving linear systems of equations, linear least squares problems, matrix eigen value problems, nonlinear systems of equations, interpolation, quadrature, and initial value ordinary differential equations.
Math^Numerical Analysis of Boundary Value Problems Numerical Analysis of Boundary Value Problems MATH 585 Numerical Analysis of Boundary Value Problems (5)Numerical methods for steady-state differential equations. Two-point boundary value problems and elliptic equations. Iterative methods for sparse symmetric and non-symmetric linear systems: conjugate-gradients, preconditioners.
Math^Numerical Analysis of Time Dependent Problems Numerical Analysis of Time Dependent Problems MATH 586 Numerical Analysis of Time Dependent Problems (5)Numerical methods for time-dependent differential equations, including explicit and implicit methods for hyperbolic and parabolic equations. Stability, accuracy, and convergence theory. Spectral and pseudospectral methods.
Math^Seminar in Probability Seminar in Probability MATH 590 Seminar in Probability (2-5, max. 12)
Math^Seminar on Teaching Math Seminar on Teaching Math MATH 597 Seminar on Teaching Math (1, max. 3)Issues in the teaching and learning of college mathematics, such as discovering and working with student background and expectations, increasing student engagement with course material, and evaluating student achievement. For graduate students who are, or soon will be, teaching mathematics courses on their own.
