Food Studies^Introduction to Food Science Introduction to Food Science 3 Chemistry, microbiology, and processing of food and food products; concepts of food preservation, packaging and marketing of foods; world food issues. Field trip required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Science on Your Plate Science on Your Plate 3 Applications of science, scientific literacy, and critical thinking as related to the development and manufacture of modern food products and their use in modern civilizations. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Safety and Quality Food Safety and Quality 3 Regulation, safety, and wholesomeness of food products; microbiological, chemical, and physical risks associated with food; hazard analysis as related to food safety, processing and quality; sanitation and pest management principles; methods for analyzing the sensory qualities of food products; problem management associated with food quality assurance. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Processing Lab Food Processing Lab 1 Application of specialized techniques, concepts and practices of food processing. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Processing Food Processing 3 Specialized techniques, concepts and practices of food processing. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Cereal Products Cereal Products 2 Technical principles related to the production and commercial processing of legume and cereal foods. Field trip required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Dairy Foods Composition and Quality Dairy Foods Composition and Quality 4 Introduction to the dairy processing industry. Chemistry of milk components. Standards of identity of dairy products. Quality control tests of fluid milk. Microbiology of fluid milk. Organoleptic properties of fluid milk. Chemical changes during storage. Federal, state, and international regulations applied to dairy foods. Cleaning and sanitation in dairy manufacturing plants. Dairy effluents and waste management. Two 1-day field trips required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Topics in Food Science Topics in Food Science V 1-3
Food Studies^Evaluation of Dairy Products I Evaluation of Dairy Products I 1 Identifying defects in dairy products and relating these defects to their probable cause; remedies. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Principles of Environmental Toxicology Principles of Environmental Toxicology 3 Nature, properties, effects, and detection of toxic substances in the environment and in environmentally exposed species, including humans. Credit not granted for both FS 409 and 509.
Food Studies^Food Microbiology Food Microbiology 3 Purpose for enumeration, detection and identification of microorganisms in food products; physical, chemical and environmental factors influencing growth and survival of foodborne microorganisms; pathogenic and spoilage microorganisms in food and their control. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Microbiology Laboratory Food Microbiology Laboratory 2 Methods for enumeration, detection, and identification of spoilage and pathogenic microorganisms in foods. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Oral Seminar in Food Science Oral Seminar in Food Science 1
Food Studies^Sensory Evaluation of Food and Wine Sensory Evaluation of Food and Wine 3 Theory, principles and application of sensory evaluation techniques in appearance, aroma, flavor and texture of foods and wine. . Credit not granted for both FS 422 and FS 522. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Sensory Evaluation of Food and Wine Lab Sensory Evaluation of Food and Wine Lab 1 Practical application of FS 422 including theory, principles and application of sensory evaluation techniques for appearance, aroma, flavor and texture of foods and wine.
Food Studies^Dairy Products Dairy Products 3 Dairy chemistry, microbiology, sanitation, product development and processing from cow to consumer. Credit not granted for both FS 429 and FS 529. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Dairy Products Lab Dairy Products Lab 1 Hands-on skills formulating, processing, evaluating and analyzing dairy products using communication and critical thinking skills. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Engineering Food Engineering 3 Food engineering for improving the efficiency of food processing operations and quality processed food; heat transfer, stream, air-vapor mixtures, refrigeration and fluid flow. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Engineering Lab Food Engineering Lab 1 To enhance the learning experience of the students taking FS 432 through laboratories, problem sessions and group discussions. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Principles of Sustainability Principles of Sustainability 3 Issues and processes in sustainability; resource management, waste generation and management; industrial approaches to sustainability; case studies. Credit not granted for both FS 436 and 536. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Chemistry Food Chemistry 3 Fundamentals of food chemistry; composition of foods and the changes that occur during processing. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Chemistry Laboratory Food Chemistry Laboratory 1 Experiments related to the properties, reactions and interactions of chemical components of foods. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Analysis Food Analysis 3 Introductory food analysis; methods common to many food commodities.
Food Studies^Food Toxicology Food Toxicology 3 General principles of toxicological evaluation of chemicals which enter the food chain; toxicology of food additives, colors, preservatives, drugs, pesticides and natural toxins in foods and risk characterization. Credit not granted for both FS 464 and FS 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Wine Microbiology and Processing Wine Microbiology and Processing 3 Technical principles related to the processing and fermentation of wines with an emphasis on microbiology. . Recommended preparation for graduate students: MBIOS 303; MBIOS 305; MBIOS 306. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Wine Microbiology and Processing Laboratory Wine Microbiology and Processing Laboratory 1 Hands-on winemaking; application of chemical microbiological methods for wine analysis. Field trip required. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Advanced Food Technology Advanced Food Technology 3 Physical principles of food preservation and recent advances in food technology.
Food Studies^Food Product Development Food Product Development 3 Course serves as a capstone experience for food science seniors, and will require the application of food chemistry, food processing/engineering, and microbiology course knowledge in formulating a new food product. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Internship in Food Science Internship in Food Science 2
Food Studies^Internship in a Winery Internship in a Winery 2
Food Studies^Topics in Food Science Topics in Food Science V 1-3
Food Studies^Principles of Environmental Toxicology Principles of Environmental Toxicology 3 Nature, properties, effects, and detection of toxic substances in the environment and in environmentally exposed species, including humans. Credit not granted for both FS 409 and 509.
Food Studies^Functional Foods and Health Functional Foods and Health 3 Benefits of foods beyond basic nutrition; bioactive compounds in functional foods and nutraceuticals relating to disease prevention and health promotion.
Food Studies^Food Lipids Food Lipids 3 Occurrence, structure, chemical and physical properties; functions of lipids in foods.
Food Studies^Food Proteins and Enzymes Food Proteins and Enzymes 2 Chemistry/biochemistry of proteins/enzymes applied to food research and industry; protein functionality/enzyme technology application to food industry.
Food Studies^Food Carbohydrates Food Carbohydrates 3 Structure function relationships of polysaccharides within food systems as a function of their respective molecular structures and physical characteristics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Laws Food Laws 2 Become familiar with government statutes and regulations that contribute to a safe, nutritious, and wholesome food supply. Understand more about the law and the US legal system relevant to the regulation of the manufacture and sale of food and supplements, including jurisdictional issues, administrative law, and tort, contract, corporate, environmental, labor, and criminal law issues. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Scientific Writing Scientific Writing 2
Food Studies^Oral Seminar Oral Seminar 1
Food Studies^Sensory Evaluation of Food and Wine Sensory Evaluation of Food and Wine 3
Food Studies^Dairy Products Dairy Products 3 Dairy chemistry, microbiology, sanitation, product development and processing from cow to consumer. Credit not granted for both FS 429 and FS 529. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Dairy Products Lab Dairy Products Lab 1 Hands-on skills formulating, processing, evaluating and analyzing dairy products using communication and critical thinking skills. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Advanced Food Safety and Quality Advanced Food Safety and Quality 3 Analysis of the safety, regulation, protection, and quality of processed food products and their manufacturing environment. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Advanced Food Microbiology Advanced Food Microbiology 3 Current topics in food-borne pathogens, including novel detection method, virulence and pathogenesis, and their interaction with environment and host.
Food Studies^Principles of Sustainability Principles of Sustainability 3 Issues and processes in sustainability; resource management, waste generation and management; industrial approaches to sustainability; case studies. Credit not granted for both FS 436 and 536. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Physical Properties of Food Physical Properties of Food 2 Thermophysical behavior of foods and biopolymers, including water transport/activity, rheological, thermal, dielectric, and barrier properties; Newtonian and non-Newtonian flow; Viscous, viscoelastic, and Hookean behavior; relationship between rheology of food biopolymers and structure, composition, temperature, and plasticizer content. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Food Toxicology Food Toxicology 3 General principles of toxicological evaluation of chemicals which enter the food chain; toxicology of food additives, colors, preservatives, drugs, pesticides and natural toxins in foods and risk characterization. Credit not granted for both FS 464 and FS 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Wine Microbiology and Processing Wine Microbiology and Processing 3 Technical principles related to the processing and fermentation of wines with an emphasis on microbiology. . Recommended preparation for graduate students: MBIOS 303; MBIOS 305; MBIOS 306. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Food Studies^Advanced Food Technology Advanced Food Technology 3 Physical principles of food preservation and recent advances in food technology.
Food Studies^Advances in Cereal Sciences and Technology Advances in Cereal Sciences and Technology 2 Chemistry and functionality of cereal grains as related to their processing and product quality.
Music^Piano Piano 2
Music^Voice Voice 2
Music^Class Guitar Class Guitar 3 Class instruction on basic guitar; repertoire will be selected from classical, jazz, rock, pop, fusion, and world music.
Music^Music Fundamentals I Music Fundamentals I 3 Notation and performance of music fundamentals: pitch, rhythm, scales, key signatures, and intervals.
Music^Music Fundamentals II Music Fundamentals II 3 Notation and performance of music fundamentals: melody, rhythm, scales, intervals, key signatures, triads; preparatory for Mus 251.
Music^Musical Style in Composition Musical Style in Composition 3 Introduction to musical style in composition, history, and analysis including theory fundamentals, history survey, and beginning composition.
Music^Survey of Music Literature Survey of Music Literature 3 Exploration of predominantly western music through demonstrations, performances, lectures, concerts, and discussions.
Music^Introduction to Theatre Introduction to Theatre 3 An introduction to numerous areas of theatre, including: analysis, playwriting, directing, acting, technical theatre, and theatre history.
Music^Introduction to Acting Introduction to Acting 3 Introduction to the fundamentals of acting through exercises, writing, self-awareness, and attending theatre productions.
Music^World Music World Music 3 Exploration of music from a global perspective through demonstrations, performances, lectures and discussion.
Music^Introduction to Music Technology Introduction to Music Technology 1 Introduction to Music Technology 1 Prereq Mus 151; Mus 251 or c//. Music notation software, audio recording and editing, and music specific web design.
Music^Class Piano I Class Piano I 1
Music^Class Piano II Class Piano II 1
Music^Foundations of Music Education Foundations of Music Education 1 Methods and materials for becoming an effective music educator; includes observations and classroom teaching.
Music^Organ Organ 2
Music^Piano Piano 2
Music^Voice Voice 2
Music^Horn Horn 2
Music^Trumpet Trumpet 2
Music^Trombone Trombone 2
Music^Euphonium Euphonium 2
Music^Tuba Tuba 2
Music^Percussion Percussion 2
Music^Violin Violin 2
Music^Viola Viola 2
Music^Violoncello Violoncello 2
Music^Contrabass Contrabass 2
Music^Flute Flute 2
Music^Oboe Oboe 2
Music^Clarinet Clarinet 2
Music^Bassoon Bassoon 2
Music^Saxophone Saxophone 2
Music^Guitar Guitar 2
Music^Materials and Structures of Music I Materials and Structures of Music I 3 Materials and Structures of Music I 3 Prereq by examination. Music theory fundamentals; analysis and composition of two-voice counterpoint, diatonic harmony in choral and keyboard texture, and melodic form.
Music^Applied Theory I Applied Theory I 1 By examination. Ear training, conducting, rhythmic reading, sight singing, keyboard, dictation.
Music^Materials and Structures of Music II Materials and Structures of Music II 3 Analysis and composition of: figured bass, Alberti figures, and choral diatonic and initial chromatic harmony; modulation; alternation and binary forms.
Music^Applied Theory II Applied Theory II 1 Ear training, sight singing, keyboard.
Music^Seminar in Composition Seminar in Composition 2
Music^Jazz Theory Jazz Theory 2 Introduction to jazz theory; chord symbols, extended harmony, scales and modes, voicing, bass lines and substitutions.
Music^Introduction to Jazz Improvisation Introduction to Jazz Improvisation 2
Music^Rock Music: History and Social Analysis Rock Music: History and Social Analysis 3 History and analysis of rock music related to its African American origins, its societal role, and its diverse development and impact.
Music^Native Music of North America Native Music of North America 3 Music and ceremonialism as a reflection of realities in North American native cultures, past and present. .
Music^Class Piano III Class Piano III 1
Music^Class Piano IV Class Piano IV 1
Music^Organ Organ V 2 to 4
Music^Piano Piano V 2-4
Music^Voice Voice V 2-4
Music^Horn Horn V 2 to 4
Music^Trumpet Trumpet V 2 to 4
Music^Trombone Trombone V 2 to 4
Music^Euphonium Euphonium V 2 to 4
Music^Tuba Tuba V 2 to 4
Music^Percussion Percussion V 2 to 4
Music^Violin Violin V 2 to 4
Music^Viola Viola V 2 to 4
Music^Violoncello Violoncello V 2 to 4
Music^Contrabass Contrabass V 2-4
Music^Flute Flute V 2 to 4
Music^Oboe Oboe V 2 to 4
Music^Clarinet Clarinet V 2 to 4
Music^Bassoon Bassoon V 2 to 4
Music^Saxophone Saxophone V 2-4
Music^Secondary Performance Study Secondary Performance Study 2
Music^Guitar Guitar V 2 to 4
Music^Materials and Structures of Music III Materials and Structures of Music III 3 Voice leading and analysis of functional chromatic harmony; study of common large forms in the 17th, 18th, and 19th century.
Music^Applied Theory III Applied Theory III 1 Continued musical development in ear training, sight singing, applied theory, keyboard dictation.
Music^Materials and Structures of Music IV Materials and Structures of Music IV 3 Vertical, linear and formal relationships of 20th century music; writing, analysis, listening.
Music^Applied Theory IV Applied Theory IV 1 Continued development in ear training, sight singing, keyboard and dictation, emphasizing 20th century music.
Music^History of Music: Antiquity to History of Music: Antiquity to 3 History and style of western art music from Antiquity to 1650; introduction to and selected topics in ethnomusicology.
Music^History of Music: - History of Music: - 3 History and style of western art music from 1650 to 1850; selected topics in ethnomusicology.
Music^History of Music: - Present History of Music: - Present 3 History and style of western art music from 1850 to present; selected topics in ethnomusicology.
Music^History of Jazz History of Jazz 3 History of jazz in chronological sequence; social and political contexts of the African-American origins of jazz; stylistic developments.
Music^Women in Music Women in Music 3 Intersections of gender, class, race, and culture with popular and country music. .
Music^Introduction to Sound Recording Technology Introduction to Sound Recording Technology 3 Music, audio and recording technology throughout history and its influence on society and culture.
Music^Diction for Singers I Diction for Singers I 2 Italian and English; International Phonetic Alphabet; fundamental diction principles, applied to each language and oriented to needs of the singer.
Music^Diction for Singers II Diction for Singers II 2 French and German; International Phonetic Alphabet; fundamental diction principles, applied to each language and oriented to needs of the singer.
Music^Music for the Classroom Teacher Music for the Classroom Teacher 2 Singing, movement, listening and instrumental methods/resources for K-8 grades.
Music^Organ Organ V 2 to 4
Music^Piano Piano V 2-4
Music^Voice Voice V 2-4
Music^Horn Horn V 2 to 4
Music^Trumpet Trumpet V 2 to 4
Music^Trombone Trombone V 2 to 4
Music^Euphonium Euphonium V 2 to 4
Music^Tuba Tuba V 2 to 4
Music^Percussion Percussion V 2 to 4
Music^Violin Violin V 2 to 4
Music^Viola Viola V 2 to 4
Music^Violoncello Violoncello V 2 to 4
Music^Contrabass Contrabass V 2-4
Music^Flute Flute V 2 to 4
Music^Oboe Oboe V 2 to 4
Music^Clarinet Clarinet V 2 to 4
Music^Bassoon Bassoon V 2 to 4
Music^Saxophone Saxophone V 2-4
Music^Guitar Guitar V 2 to 4
Music^Opera Workshop Opera Workshop 1
Music^Concert Choir Concert Choir 1
Music^University Singers University Singers 1
Music^Vocal Ensembles Vocal Ensembles 1
Music^Symphony Orchestra Symphony Orchestra 1
Music^Chamber Ensembles Chamber Ensembles 1
Music^Symphonic Band Symphonic Band 1
Music^Wind Symphony Wind Symphony 1
Music^Jazz-Lab Band Jazz-Lab Band 1
Music^Vocal Jazz Ensemble Vocal Jazz Ensemble 1
Music^Jazz Combos Jazz Combos 1
Music^Accompanying Accompanying 1
Music^Marching Band/Varsity Band Marching Band/Varsity Band 1
Music^Seminar in Counterpoint Seminar in Counterpoint 2
Music^Electronic Music Electronic Music 2 Introduction to computer-controlled digital, analog, and sampling synthesis; topics include sequencing, waveform editing, and creative projects.
Music^Seminar in Instrumentation Seminar in Instrumentation 2
Music^Seminar in Advanced Composition Seminar in Advanced Composition 4
Music^Seminar in Jazz Arranging/Composition Seminar in Jazz Arranging/Composition 2 Arranging and composing for instrumental jazz ensembles.
Music^Advanced Jazz Improvisation Advanced Jazz Improvisation 2
Music^Seminar in Advanced Jazz Composition Seminar in Advanced Jazz Composition V 1 to 3
Music^Seminar in Major Performance Literature Seminar in Major Performance Literature 2
Music^Marketing and Promotion for the Performing Arts Marketing and Promotion for the Performing Arts 2 Components and techniques used in the marketing and promotion of the performing arts and the entertainment industry.
Music^Instrumental Music Education Instrumental Music Education 3 Philosophies, administration, organization, materials and methods for instrumental music education K-12. Credit not granted for both MUS 480 and MUS 580. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Instrumental Conducting Instrumental Conducting 1 Techniques and patterns in conducting as applied to orchestra and band literature; score preparation and rehearsal techniques for instrumental ensembles.
Music^Choral Conducting Choral Conducting 1 Techniques and patterns in conducting as applied to choral literature; score preparation and rehearsal techniques for choral ensembles.
Music^String Techniques String Techniques 2 String techniques, materials and methods for music education majors.
Music^Choral Methods and Materials I Choral Methods and Materials I 2 Preparation in the administration of choral programs from auditions to the selection and rehearsal of choral literature. Credit not granted for both MUS 488 and MUS 588. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Choral Methods and Materials II Choral Methods and Materials II 2 Development of skills in choral arranging, curriculum construction, research, and job placement. Credit not granted for both MUS 489 and MUS 589. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^General Music Material/Methods General Music Material/Methods 3 Materials and methods for general music education majors; multiculturalism, collaboration, developmental curriculum and research issues; addressing national standards; observations. Credit not granted for both MUS 490 and MUS 590. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Voice Pedagogy Voice Pedagogy 2 Anatomy of the singing process; methodology of teaching voices in various learning and teaching styles. Credit not granted for both MUS 491 and MUS 591. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Wind and Percussion Techniques I Wind and Percussion Techniques I 2 Brass, woodwind, and percussion techniques for music education majors.
Music^Wind and Percussion Techniques II Wind and Percussion Techniques II 2 Brass, woodwind and percussion techniques; elementary instrument conducting for music education majors.
Music^Topics in Music Topics in Music V 1-3
Music^Directed Student Teaching in Music Directed Student Teaching in Music V 4-16 Supervised teaching in public schools, including seminars reflecting on effective teaching.
Music^Piano Pedagogy Practicum Piano Pedagogy Practicum 2
Music^Organ Organ V 2 to 4
Music^Piano Piano V 2-4
Music^Voice Voice V 2-4
Music^Horn Horn V 2 to 4
Music^Trumpet Trumpet V 2 to 4
Music^Trombone Trombone V 2 to 4
Music^Euphonium Euphonium V 2 to 4
Music^Tuba Tuba V 2 to 4
Music^Percussion Percussion V 2 to 4
Music^Violin Violin V 2 to 4
Music^Viola Viola V 2 to 4
Music^Violoncello Violoncello V 2 to 4
Music^Contrabass Contrabass V 2 to 4
Music^Flute Flute V 2 to 4
Music^Oboe Oboe V 2 to 4
Music^Clarinet Clarinet V 2 to 4
Music^Bassoon Bassoon V 2 to 4
Music^Saxophone Saxophone V 2-4
Music^Secondary Performance Study Secondary Performance Study V 1-2
Music^Guitar Guitar V 2 to 4
Music^Graduate Recital Graduate Recital 2 Private screening and public performance as required within each performance emphasis.
Music^Opera Workshop Opera Workshop 1
Music^Concert Choir Concert Choir 1
Music^Vocal Ensembles Vocal Ensembles 1
Music^Symphony Orchestra Symphony Orchestra 1
Music^Chamber Ensembles Chamber Ensembles 1
Music^Wind Symphony Wind Symphony 1
Music^Jazz-Lab Band Jazz-Lab Band 1
Music^Vocal Jazz Ensemble Vocal Jazz Ensemble 1
Music^Jazz Combos Jazz Combos 1
Music^Accompanying Accompanying 1
Music^Seminar in Analysis Seminar in Analysis 2
Music^Seminar in Music Theory Seminar in Music Theory 2
Music^Graduate Seminar in Advanced Composition Graduate Seminar in Advanced Composition V 2 to 3
Music^Seminar in Advanced Jazz Composition Seminar in Advanced Jazz Composition V 1 to 3
Music^Introduction to Graduate Studies in Music Introduction to Graduate Studies in Music 2 Required of all graduate students in music. Basic bibliographic and research techniques; written presentations related to area of emphasis.
Music^Seminar in Literature of th Century Music Seminar in Literature of th Century Music 2 Impressionism, expressionism, neoclassicism, neoromanticism, jazz and recent electronic music.
Music^Seminar in Major Ensemble Literature Seminar in Major Ensemble Literature 2
Music^Seminar in Music History Seminar in Music History 2
Music^Advanced Conducting Advanced Conducting V 2-3
Music^Instrumental Music Education Instrumental Music Education 3 Philosophies, administration, organization, materials and methods for instrumental music education K-12. Credit not granted for both MUS 480 and MUS 580. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Seminar in Piano Pedagogy Seminar in Piano Pedagogy 2 Materials and methods of teaching experiences.
Music^Choral Methods and Materials I Choral Methods and Materials I 2 Preparation in the administration of choral programs from auditions to the selection and rehearsal of choral literature. Credit not granted for both MUS 488 and MUS 588. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Choral Methods and Materials II Choral Methods and Materials II 2 Development of skills in choral arranging, curriculum construction, research, and job placement. Credit not granted for both MUS 489 and MUS 589. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^General Music Material/Methods General Music Material/Methods 3 Materials and methods for general music education majors; multiculturalism, collaboration, developmental curriculum and research issues; addressing national standards; observations. Credit not granted for both MUS 490 and MUS 590. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Voice Pedagogy Voice Pedagogy 2 Anatomy of the singing process; methodology of teaching voices in various learning and teaching styles. Credit not granted for both MUS 491 and MUS 591. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Music^Topics in Music Topics in Music V 1-3
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Bioengineering Introduction to Bioengineering 1 Seminar on current topics and issues in bioengineering; career options in bioengineering.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Professional Preparation and Ethics Bioengineering Professional Preparation and Ethics 1 Professional preparation for careers in bioengineering; ethical, social, and professional issues in bioengineering.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Analysis Bioengineering Analysis 2 Analytical problem solving, modeling and computer methods for bioengineering applications.
Bio Engineering^Mechanics of Biological Materials Mechanics of Biological Materials 3 Mechanical behavior of biological and engineering materials; relationships between external loads and internal stresses and strains within a structure.
Bio Engineering^Mechanics of Biological Materials Lab Mechanics of Biological Materials Lab 1 Laboratory experiments focused on mechanics of biological and engineering materials; experimental design and statistical analysis of data; scientific writing.
Bio Engineering^Bioinstrumentation Bioinstrumentation 3 Principles of instrumentation applicable to bioengineering systems; experimental design for measurement systems.
Bio Engineering^Unified Systems Bioengineering I Unified Systems Bioengineering I 4 Foundation for dynamic modeling and design of physiological systems; part one of two-semester course.
Bio Engineering^Introduction to Cellular Bioengineering Introduction to Cellular Bioengineering 3 Integrating cellular biology and engineering science by applying quantitative engineering principles for development of cellular-based materials, diagnostic devices and sensor designs.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Capstone Project I Bioengineering Capstone Project I 3 Part I of capstone engineering design project; customer needs, design requirements, conceptual design, business assessment, project proposal, and presentation.
Bio Engineering^Bioengineering Capstone Project II Bioengineering Capstone Project II 3 Detailed design and business case for a biological engineering-related process, machine, structure, or system.
Bio Engineering^Biomechanics Biomechanics 3 Methods for analysis of rigid body and deformable mechanics; application to biological tissue, especially bone, cartilage, ligaments, tendon and muscle. . Credit not granted for more than one of BIO ENG 425, BIO ENG 525, or ME 525. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Bio Engineering^Unified Systems Bioengineering II Unified Systems Bioengineering II 4 Continuation of BIO ENG 340; emphasis on feedback control system analysis and design, with examples from physiological systems.
Bio Engineering^Metabolic Engineering Metabolic Engineering 3 Understanding metabolic properties of organisms such that cells can be modified for use as biochemical plants to produce desired bioproducts. .
Bio Engineering^Advanced Topics in Bioengineering Advanced Topics in Bioengineering V 1-3
Bio Engineering^Internship in Bioengineering Internship in Bioengineering V 1-3
Bio Engineering^Special Problems in Bioengineering Special Problems in Bioengineering V 1-4
Bio Engineering^Biomechanics Biomechanics 3 Methods for analysis of rigid body and deformable mechanics; application to biological tissue, especially bone, cartilage, ligaments, tendon and muscle. . Credit not granted for more than one of BIO ENG 425, BIO ENG 525, or ME 525. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Bio Engineering^Systems Bioengineering Systems Bioengineering 3 Physiological systems emphasizing the cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal, endocrine, musculoskeletal, nervous and sensory systems.
Bio Engineering^Cellular Bioengineering Cellular Bioengineering 3 Cellular biology integrated with engineering science; cellular phenomena from an engineering perspective; quantitative engineering principles for cellular-based materials, diagnostic devise and sensor designs.
Computer Science^Introduction to Algorithmic Problem Solving Introduction to Algorithmic Problem Solving 3 Elementary algorithmic problem solving, computational models, sequential, iterative and conditional operations, parameterized procedures, array and list structures and basic efficiency analysis.
Computer Science^Program Design and Development Program Design and Development 4 Formulation of problems and top-down design of programs in a modern structured language for their solution on a digital computer.
Computer Science^Data Structures Data Structures 4 Advanced programming techniques: data structures, recursion, sorting and searching, and basics of algorithm analysis.
Computer Science^Advanced Data Structures Advanced Data Structures 3 Advanced data structures, object oriented programming concepts, concurrency, and program design principles.
Computer Science^Programming Tools Programming Tools 2 Debugging tools, scripting languages, UNIX programming tools.
Computer Science^Introduction to Computer Architecture Introduction to Computer Architecture 3 Computer systems architecture; logic, data representation, assembly language, memory organization and trends.
Computer Science^Professional Skills in Computing and Engineering Professional Skills in Computing and Engineering 3 Course prerequisite: Certified major in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or Electrical Engineering; junior standing. Foundation in computing and engineering professional development. . Credit not granted for both CPT S/E E 302 and CPT S 401.
Computer Science^Automata and Formal Languages Automata and Formal Languages 3 Finite automata, regular sets, pushdown automata, context-free language, Turing machines and the halting problem.
Computer Science^Software Engineering Principles I Software Engineering Principles I 3 Introduction to software engineering; requirements analysis, definition, specification including formal methods; prototyping; design including object and function oriented design.
Computer Science^Software Design Software Design 3 Practical aspects of software design and implementation using object-oriented, aspect-oriented and procedural programming.
Computer Science^() Design and Analysis of Algorithms () Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 Analysis of data structures and algorithms; computational complexity and design of efficient data-handling procedures.
Computer Science^Programming Language Design Programming Language Design 3 Design concepts of high-level programming languages; survey of existing languages, experience using some languages.
Computer Science^Systems Programming Systems Programming 4 Implementation of sys-tems programs, concepts of computer operating systems; laboratory experience in using operating system facilities.
Computer Science^Computers and Society Computers and Society 3 Skills and literacy course. Ethical and societal issues related to computers and computer networks; computers as enabling technology; computer crime, software theft, privacy, viruses, worms. Credit not granted for both CPT S 401 and CPT S/E E 302.
Computer Science^Software Design Project I Software Design Project I 3 Large-scale software development including requirements analysis, estimation, design, verification and project management.
Computer Science^Software Engineering Principles II Software Engineering Principles II 3 Dependable software systems; software verification and validation, testing; CASE environments; software management and evolution.
Computer Science^Software Design Project II Software Design Project II 3 Laboratory/group design project for large-scale software development, requirements analysis, estimation, design, verification techniques.
Computer Science^Computer Security Computer Security 3 Computer security concepts, models and mechanism; encryption technology, formal models, policy and ethical implications. Credit not granted for both CPT S 427 and CPT S 527. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis 3 Fundamentals of numerical computation; finding zeroes of functions, approximation and interpolation; numerical integration ; numerical solution of ordinary differential equations. . Required preparation must include differential equations and a programming course. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Neural Network Design and Application Neural Network Design and Application 3 Hands-on experience with neural network modeling of nonlinear phenomena; application to classification, forecasting, identification and control. Credit not granted for both CPT S 434 and CPT S 534. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Scientific Visualization Scientific Visualization 3 Data taxonomy, sampling, plotting, using and extending a visualization package, designing visualization and domain-specific techniques. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Critical Infrastructure Security: The Emerging Smart Grid Critical Infrastructure Security: The Emerging Smart Grid 3 Smart electric grid, communication networks, distributed computing, fault tolerant computing, cyber security, analyzing interdependencies between the smart grid components, smart grid standards and protocols. .
Computer Science^Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence 3 An introduction to the field of artificial intelligence including heuristic search, knowledge representation, deduction, uncertainty reasoning, learning, and symbolic programming languages. Credit not granted for both CPT S 440 and CPT S 540. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Computer Graphics Computer Graphics 3 Raster operations; transformations and viewing; geometric modeling; visibility and shading; color. Credit not granted for both CPT S 442 and CPT S 542. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Human-Computer Interaction Human-Computer Interaction 3 Concepts and methodologies of engineering, social and behavioral sciences to address ergonomic, cognitive, social and cultural factors in the design and evaluation of human-computer systems. Credit not granted for both CPT S 443 and CPT S 543. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Introduction to Database Systems Introduction to Database Systems 3 Introduction to database concepts, data models, database languages, database design, implementation issues.
Computer Science^Compiler Design Compiler Design 3 Design of lexical analyzers, syntactic analyzers, intermediate code generators, code optimizers and object code generators.
Computer Science^Graph Theory Graph Theory 3 Graphs and their applications, directed graphs, trees, networks, Eulerian and Hamiltonian paths, matrix representations, construction of algorithms. . Required preparation must include linear algebra. Required preparation must include linear algebra. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Introduction to Computer Networks Introduction to Computer Networks 3 Concepts and implementation of computer networks; architectures, protocol layers, internetworking and addressing case studies. .
Computer Science^Operating Systems and Computer Architecture Operating Systems and Computer Architecture 3 Operating systems, computer architectures, and their interrelationships in micro, mini, and large computer systems.
Computer Science^Distributed Systems Concepts and Programming Distributed Systems Concepts and Programming 3 Concepts of distributed systems; naming, security, networking, replication, synchronization, quality of service; programming middleware. Credit not granted for both CPT S 464 and CPT S 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Embedded Systems Embedded Systems 3 The design and development of real-time and dedicated software systems with an introduction to sensors and actuators. Credit not granted for both CPT S 466 and CPT S 566. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Concepts in Biotechnology Concepts in Biotechnology 3 Fundamentals of biological sciences and biotechnology for engineers and computer scientists. .
Computer Science^Computational Genomics Computational Genomics 3 Fundamental algorithms, techniques and applications. Credit not granted for both CPT S 471 and CPT S 571. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Python Software Construction Python Software Construction 3 Intensive introduction to the python language; user interface, building and using extension modules; C interfacing; construction of a major project.
Computer Science^Topics in Computer Science Topics in Computer Science V 1-4
Computer Science^Work Study Internship Work Study Internship V 1-9
Computer Science^Proseminar Proseminar 1 Faculty research interests, departmental computer systems, computer science research, report preparation.
Computer Science^Algorithmics Algorithmics 3 Discrete structures, automata, formal languages, recursive functions, algorithms, and computability.
Computer Science^Computer Security Computer Security 3 Computer security concepts, models and mechanism; encryption technology, formal models, policy and ethical implications. Credit not granted for both CPT S 427 and CPT S 527. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis 3 Fundamentals of numerical computation; finding zeroes of functions, approximation and interpolation; numerical integration ; numerical solution of ordinary differential equations. . Required preparation must include differential equations and a programming course. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Advanced Matrix Computations Advanced Matrix Computations 3 Advanced topics in the solution of linear systems and eigenvalue problems, including parallel matrix computations. . Required preparation must include numerical analysis. Required preparation must include numerical analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Neural Network Design and Application Neural Network Design and Application 3 Hands-on experience with neural network modeling of nonlinear phenomena; application to classification, forecasting, identification and control. Credit not granted for both CPT S 434 and CPT S 534. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Scientific Visualization Scientific Visualization 3 Data taxonomy; sampling; plotting; using and extending a visualization package; designing visualizations; domain-specific techniques.
Computer Science^Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence 3 An introduction to the field of artificial intelligence including heuristic search, knowledge representation, deduction, uncertainty reasoning, learning, and symbolic programming languages. Credit not granted for both CPT S 440 and CPT S 540. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Computer Graphics Computer Graphics 3 Raster operations; transformations and viewing; geometric modeling; visibility and shading; color. Credit not granted for both CPT S 442 and CPT S 542. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Human-Computer Interaction Human-Computer Interaction 3 Concepts and methodologies of engineering, social and behavioral sciences to address ergonomic, cognitive, social and cultural factors in the design and evaluation of human-computer systems. Credit not granted for both CPT S 443 and CPT S 543. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Advanced Computer Graphics Advanced Computer Graphics 3 Solid modeling, visual realism, light and color models, advanced surface generation techniques.
Computer Science^Parallel Computation Parallel Computation 3 Parallel machine models, principles for the design of parallel algorithms, interconnection networks, systolic arrays, computational aspects to VLSI. Required preparation must include differential equations and a programming course.
Computer Science^Graph Theory Graph Theory 3 Graphs and their applications, directed graphs, trees, networks, Eulerian and Hamiltonian paths, matrix representations, construction of algorithms. . Required preparation must include linear algebra. Required preparation must include linear algebra. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Computer Communication Networks Computer Communication Networks 3 Packet switching networks; multi-access and local-area networks; delay models in data networks; routing and flow control. .
Computer Science^Advanced Computer Networks Advanced Computer Networks 3 ATM networks, optical WDM networks, and wireless/mobile networks; access, transport, and routing protocols.
Computer Science^Operating Systems Operating Systems 3 Structure of multiprogramming and multiprocessing; efficient allocation of systems resources; design implementation and performance measurement.
Computer Science^Computer Architecture Computer Architecture 3 Parallel and distributed processors; multiprocessors; interconnection topologies; language-directed architecture; special-purpose architecture.
Computer Science^Fault Tolerant Computer Systems Fault Tolerant Computer Systems 3 Fault tolerance aspects involved in design and evaluation of systems; methods of detection and recovery; multicast, middleware, and reconfiguration. .
Computer Science^Distributed Systems Concepts and Programming Distributed Systems Concepts and Programming 3 Concepts of distributed systems; naming, security, networking, replication, synchronization, quality of service; programming middleware. Credit not granted for both CPT S 464 and CPT S 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Embedded Systems Embedded Systems 3 The design and development of real-time and dedicated software systems with an introduction to sensors and actuators. Credit not granted for both CPT S 466 and CPT S 566. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Computer Science^Machine Learning Machine Learning 3 Introduction to building computer systems that learn from their experience; classification and regression problems; unsupervised and reinforcement learning.
Computer Science^Computational Genomics Computational Genomics 3 Fundamental algorithms, techniques and applications. Credit not granted for both CPT S 471 and CPT S 571. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Computer Science^Numerical Methods in Computational Biology Numerical Methods in Computational Biology 3 Computational methods for solving scientific problems related to information processing in biological systems at the molecular and cellular levels.
Computer Science^Bioinformatics Software Development Bioinformatics Software Development 3 Provides programming skills needed to address current computational problems in bioinformatics; emphasis on mathematical development and software design.
Computer Science^Advanced Topics in Computer Science Advanced Topics in Computer Science 3
Computer Science^Directed Study in Computer Science Directed Study in Computer Science V 1 to 3
Chemical Engineering^Success in Engineering Study Success in Engineering Study 2 Engineering study with an emphasis on working in groups and evaluating personal needs and goals.
Chemical Engineering^Introductory Mathematics for Engineering Applications Introductory Mathematics for Engineering Applications 3 Application of mathematics principles to engineering problems across engineering disciplines; concepts from trigonometry to differential equations necessary for sophomore engineering courses.
Chemical Engineering^Innovation in Design Innovation in Design 2 Introduction to engineering disciplines, problem solving, design teamwork and ethics.
Chemical Engineering^Metal Fabrication Metal Fabrication 3 Theory, applications, and practices of welding, machining, and associated techniques in fabricating with metals. .
Chemical Engineering^Technology Ventures Technology Ventures 3 Focus on commercializing ideas, modifying existing products, exploiting market opportunities, and creating new enterprises.
Chemical Engineering^Multidisciplinary Engineering Design I Multidisciplinary Engineering Design I 3 Needs analysis and conceptualization of technological products and business plan for target market; multidisciplinary team development.
Chemical Engineering^Multidisciplinary Engineering Design II Multidisciplinary Engineering Design II 3 Prototype solution developed and evaluated and business plan completed; presentation to stake holders; team development and assessment.
Chemistry^Introduction to Chemistry Introduction to Chemistry 4 Basic chemical concepts; atomic theory, periodicity, reaction stoichiometry, gases, solutions, acids, basis, pH, equilibrium, kinetics, energy, applications to life sciences.
Chemistry^Chemistry Related to Life Sciences Chemistry Related to Life Sciences 4 Organic functional groups and their reactions; polymers, macro-molecules; carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, enzymes, nucleic acids, hormones, applications to life sciences.
Chemistry^Principles of Chemistry I Principles of Chemistry I 4 Stoichiometry, structure, gases, liquids, solids, solutions, thermodynamics, kinetics, equilibrium, volumetric, and gravimetric analysis.
Chemistry^Principles of Chemistry II Principles of Chemistry II 4 Acid-base, ionic, molecular, solubility, oxidation/reduction equilibria; kinetics, electrochemistry; systematic chemistry of the elements; coordination compounds. Credit not granted for both CHEM 106 and 116.
Chemistry^Chemical Principles Honors II Chemical Principles Honors II 4 Descriptive inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry principles, acid/base, ionic and molecular equilibrium, electrochem, thermodynamics, kinetics. Laboratory interfaced with computers. Credit not granted for both CHEM 106 and 116.
Chemistry^Independent Study in Modern Chemistry Independent Study in Modern Chemistry V 1-3
Chemistry^Quantitative Analysis Quantitative Analysis 2 Theories of quantitative chemical analysis; statistical evaluation of data; chemical equilibrium; volumetric and gravimetric methods of analysis; introduction to electrochemistry.
Chemistry^Quantitative Analysis Laboratory Quantitative Analysis Laboratory 2 Application of classical methods in volumetric and gravimetric analysis; acid-base, redox and EDTA titrations; ion-exchange chromatography; introduction to spectrophotometry.
Chemistry^Problem Solving in Physical Chemistry Problem Solving in Physical Chemistry 1 Quantitative methods of data analysis and chemical concept development; emphasis on multivariable, matrix, and computer methods.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry 3 Concepts of physical chemistry; basic thermodynamics; free energy and entropy; phase equilibria; properties of solutions of electrolytes and non-electrolytes.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Physical Chemistry 3 Elementary quantum theory; molecular structure and spectra; bonding theory; reaction rates; photochemistry and radiation chemistry; energy states and statistical thermodynamics.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Laboratory for Chemists Physical Chemistry Laboratory for Chemists 1 Experiments selected to meet the individual needs of students in biology, civil engineering, chemistry, or materials science.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Laboratory Physical Chemistry Laboratory 2 Continuation of CHEM 333. Experiments in molecular structure, atomic molecular spectroscopy, chemical kinetics including computational methods.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry Laboratory for Chemical Engineers Physical Chemistry Laboratory for Chemical Engineers 1 Experiments selected to meet the needs of students majoring in chemical engineering.
Chemistry^Physical Chemistry for Chemical Biology Physical Chemistry for Chemical Biology 3 The modern tools and insights of physical chemistry are covered by interconnecting these fundamental concepts with key biological phenomena.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry I Organic Chemistry I 4 Survey of organic chemistry providing an overview of the chemistry of the functional groups.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry II Organic Chemistry II 3 Lecture-only component of CHEM 348. Advanced concepts in organic chemistry including mechanisms and multistep-synthesis. Credit not granted for both CHEM 346 and 348.
Chemistry^Organic Qualitative Analysis Laboratory Organic Qualitative Analysis Laboratory 3 Isolation, purification and identification of unknown compounds; for chemistry and biochemistry majors.
Chemistry^Organic Chemistry II and Problem Solving Organic Chemistry II and Problem Solving 4 Advanced concepts in organic chemistry including mechanisms and multistep-synthesis; problem analysis and critical thinking development in organic chemistry. Credit not granted for both CHEM 346 and 348.
Chemistry^Chemistry in Contemporary Society Chemistry in Contemporary Society 4 Principles and applications of chemistry in the context of contemporary society.
Chemistry^Chemical Biology Chemical Biology 3 Exploration of the chemistry of biological systems with regards to structure and function relations, as well as metabolism and energy production.
Chemistry^Undergraduate Seminar Undergraduate Seminar 1
Chemistry^Modern Inorganic Chemistry Modern Inorganic Chemistry 3 Properties of substances; periodic systems; oxidation-reduction and acid-base characteristics interpreted on the basis of atomic and molecular structure.
Chemistry^Advanced Synthesis and Characterization Advanced Synthesis and Characterization 3 Synthesis and characterization of organic and inorganic compounds and solid-state materials; modern synthetic technology, characterization methods, and laboratory techniques.
Chemistry^Quantitative Instrumental Analysis Quantitative Instrumental Analysis 2 Computer interfacing applicable to chemical instrumentation; principles and applications of modern chromatography, spectrophotometry and electrochemical techniques.
Chemistry^Quantitative Instrumental Analysis Laboratory Quantitative Instrumental Analysis Laboratory 2 Laboratory experience in modern analytical methods.
Chemistry^Solid State Chemistry Solid State Chemistry 3 Properties, bonding and synthesis of solid state material; crystalline and amorphous solids and coatings.
Chemistry^Senior Thesis in Chemistry Senior Thesis in Chemistry 3 Required capstone course for chemistry majors culminating in the development of a written research thesis.
Chemistry^Current Topics in Chemistry Current Topics in Chemistry V 1-3
Chemistry^Directed Research Directed Research 1 Poster presentation of final research project.
Chemistry^Advanced Inorganic Chemistry I Advanced Inorganic Chemistry I 3 Periodic table survey, typical compounds and their reactivity; models and reactivity, acid-base, oxidation-reduction, and electronic structure contributions.
Chemistry^Advanced Topics in Inorganic Chemistry Advanced Topics in Inorganic Chemistry V 1-3
Chemistry^Chemical Group Theory Chemical Group Theory 3 Mathematical definitions of groups and representations, applications to chemical structure and spectra, ligand field theory, chemical reactions and selection rules.
Chemistry^Introduction to Proteomics Introduction to Proteomics 2 Techniques and applications for the analysis of the proteome.
Chemistry^Bioanalysis Bioanalysis 2 Methods for the measurement of biological compounds.
Chemistry^Mass Spectrometry Mass Spectrometry 2 Current methods, techniques and interpretation of mass spectrometric analysis.
Chemistry^Chromatography Chromatography 2
Chemistry^Electrochemistry Electrochemistry 2
Chemistry^Advanced Analytical Chemistry Advanced Analytical Chemistry 3 Statistics in chemical analysis; sampling; control of contamination and losses in analysis; electrochemical methods; separation in analysis; spectroscopic techniques.
Chemistry^Radiochemistry and Radiotracers Radiochemistry and Radiotracers 2 Graduate-level counterpart of CHEM 421; additional requirements.
Chemistry^Radiochemistry Laboratory Radiochemistry Laboratory 1 Graduate-level counterpart of CHEM 422; additional requirements. Required preparation must include CHEM 222, CHEM 331, and PHYSICS 202 or equivalent.
Chemistry^Environmental Chemistry Environmental Chemistry 2 Natural water chemistry, AGRI processes, kinetics, thermodynamics, modeling in lake, river, and sea water.
Chemistry^Selected Topics in Analytical Chemistry Selected Topics in Analytical Chemistry V 1-3
Chemistry^Advanced Physical Chemistry I Advanced Physical Chemistry I 3 Classical physical chemistry including basic thermodynamics and kinetics; an introductory discussion of surface chemistry and electrochemistry.
Chemistry^Advanced Physical Chemistry II Advanced Physical Chemistry II 3 Introduction to quantum mechanics; postulates of quantum mechanics; exact solutions and approximation methods.
Chemistry^Chemical Statistical Mechanics Chemical Statistical Mechanics 3 Statistical theory of thermodynamic variables and chemical equilibrium; calculation of equilibrium properties from spectral data; fluctuations about equilibrium; quantum statistics.
Chemistry^Quantum Chemistry Quantum Chemistry 3 Quantum mechanics applied to chemical problems: states of atoms and molecules, transitions and spectra, ladder operators and many electron methods.
Chemistry^Advanced Topics in Physical Chemistry Advanced Topics in Physical Chemistry V 1-3
Chemistry^Physical Organic Chemistry Physical Organic Chemistry 3 The major classes of organic reaction mechanisms and their significance; kinetics and introductory theory. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Chemistry^Advanced Organic Chemistry Advanced Organic Chemistry 3 Synthesis of organic compounds; recent developments from current literature.
Chemistry^Bioorganic Chemistry Bioorganic Chemistry 3 Chemistry of biological systems, medicinal chemistry, protein chemistry, enzyme mechanisms and inhibitors.
Chemistry^Advanced Topics in Organic Chemistry Advanced Topics in Organic Chemistry V 1-3
Chemistry^Synthetic Organic Chemistry Synthetic Organic Chemistry 3 Modern synthetic methods and strategies; detailed reaction mechanisms, reaction scope and issues in catalysis will be discussed. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Chemistry^Spectroscopic Identification of Organic Compounds Spectroscopic Identification of Organic Compounds 3 Structural interpretation of mass spectrometry and IR, UV-VIS and NMR spectrometry of small molecule organic compounds.
Chemistry^Special Topics in Nuclear Processes and Radioactive Waste Management Special Topics in Nuclear Processes and Radioactive Waste Management V 1-3
Chemistry^Teaching Chemistry Teaching Chemistry 1 Teaching chemistry; workshops for new graduate teaching assistants in chemistry focusing on tutorials and labs.
Chemistry^Molecular Phenomena Molecular Phenomena 3 Phenomena which yield information on structures, energy levels, and interactions of molecules in solid, liquid, and gaseous phases.
Chemistry^Enzyme Reaction Mechanisms Enzyme Reaction Mechanisms 3 Methods used to explore enzyme mechanisms; how enzymes catalyze reactions; overview of enzyme co-factors and exploration of differing classes of enzyme catalyzed reactions.
Chemistry^Environmental Chemistry I Environmental Chemistry I 3 Chemistry of natural and pollutant species and their reactions in the atmospheric environment.
Chemistry^Introduction to Research Topics Introduction to Research Topics 1 Presentation and description of research areas and projects of current interest to faculty.
Chemistry^Seminar in Analytical Chemistry Seminar in Analytical Chemistry 1
Chemistry^Seminar in Physical Chemistry Seminar in Physical Chemistry 1
Chemistry^Seminar in Organic Chemistry Seminar in Organic Chemistry 1
Communications^Media and Society Media and Society 3 Mass media's influence in contemporary society.
Communications^Public Speaking in the Digital Age Public Speaking in the Digital Age 3 Face-to-face and mediated communication in group and professional settings.
Communications^Communication in Global Contexts Communication in Global Contexts 3 Communication processes and how they influence human behavior and construction of social reality across global contexts.
Communications^Communication Overview Communication Overview 1
Communications^Multimedia Content Creation Multimedia Content Creation 3 Applied multimedia content creation and evaluation in graphic design, audio, and video production through communication theory and practice.
Communications^Writing in Communication Writing in Communication 3
Communications^Visual Communication Visual Communication 3 Visual communication in today's print, electronic, and broadcast media to inform, educate, and persuade.
Communications^Science Writing Science Writing 3 Writing about science and technology for print, online, public relations, and broadcast formats.
Communications^History of Mass Communications History of Mass Communications 3
Communications^Media Law Media Law 3 Basic concepts and theories of the First Amendment's protection of speech and press.
Communications^New Communication Technologies New Communication Technologies 3 New communication technologies, their impact on communication processes, access, regulation, and communication in organization/professional contexts.
Communications^Media Ethics Media Ethics 3 Foundations and frameworks of media ethics; case studies in assessing media performance.
Communications^Mass Media Criticism Mass Media Criticism 3 Theoretical and philosophical basis for critical analysis of mass communication.
Communications^Gender and the Media Gender and the Media 3 How news and entertainment media shape and reinforce societal expectations of gender; consideration of race, age, class, and sexual orientation. .
Communications^Mass Communications Theories and Theory Construction Mass Communications Theories and Theory Construction 3 Theories of mass communication and the process of theory construction.
Communications^Stereotypes in Communication Stereotypes in Communication 3 Examines portrayals of social groups in the media and the impact portrayals have on perceptions, expectations, and aspirations of members of portrayed groups and nonmembers. .
Communications^Health Communication Health Communication 3 Mediated communication in disease prevention and health intervention.
Communications^Youth and the Media Youth and the Media 3 Effects of media messages on children and adolescents, and developing responsible and effective programming for youth.
Communications^Mobile Media Mobile Media 3 Theories, strategies, practices for strategic communication via mobile platforms.
Communications^Computer Mediated Communication Computer Mediated Communication 3 Social and psychological implications of computer mediated communication and differences from face-to-face communication.
Communications^() Backpack Journalism () Backpack Journalism 3
Communications^Web Design and Usability Web Design and Usability 3 Web design with an emphasis or user-centered design and usability.
Communications^Communication Professional Internship Communication Professional Internship V 2-12
Communications^Communication Colloquium Communication Colloquium 1
Communications^Theory Building in Communication Theory Building in Communication 3 Relationship of research to theory development; evaluation of current theory and research; planning and executing research within specified theoretical frameworks.
Communications^Consumer Analysis and Brand Development Consumer Analysis and Brand Development 3 Consumer analysis and brand development; skills to make strategic communication campaigns successful.
Communications^Instructional Practicum Instructional Practicum 1
Communications^Persuasion and Social Influence Persuasion and Social Influence 3 Theories, concepts strategies and processes of persuasion and social influence.
Communications^Communication Ethics Seminar Communication Ethics Seminar 3 Topics in communication ethics.
Communications^Quantitative Research Quantitative Research 3 Introduction to quantitative research in communication; hypothesis development, testing; basic statistics, interpretation; field surveys, laboratory and field experiments, content analysis.
Communications^Health Communication Theories and Campaigns Health Communication Theories and Campaigns 3 Health communication theories with a focus on campaign construction and evaluation.
Communications^Health Communication and Society Health Communication and Society 3 3 Reviews, critiques and applications of research regarding the impact of social and cultural environments on health communication.
Communications^Youth and the Media Youth and the Media 3 Explores how children, adolescents, and emerging adults use media in decision making and identity formation, health, and civic affairs.
Communications^Foundational Perspectives in Intercultural Communication Foundational Perspectives in Intercultural Communication 3 Overview of three current foundational research perspectives in intercultural communication; functionalist , interpretive and critical.
Communications^Theoretical Perspectives on Intercultural Communication Theoretical Perspectives on Intercultural Communication 3 Advanced readings in intercultural communication theory and methods; paradigms in current theorizing.
Communications^Intercultural/International Communication and Social Change Intercultural/International Communication and Social Change 3 Application of communication theory, research and technologies aimed at fostering social change in intercultural and international contexts.
Communications^Current Topics in Intercultural Communication Current Topics in Intercultural Communication 3 Topics in current intercultural communication research.
Communications^Organizational Communication Theory Organizational Communication Theory 3
Communications^Organization and Society Organization and Society 3 Historical foundations, theoretical developments, contemporary issues and practical implications of communicative processes of organizations within society.
Communications^Risk Communication Risk Communication 3 Research and practice in risk communication.
Communications^Media Processes and Effects: Theory and Practice Media Processes and Effects: Theory and Practice 3 Physiological, psychological and social effects of media messages and technologies upon individuals and societies.
Communications^Current Issues in Media Processes and Effects Current Issues in Media Processes and Effects 3 Current issues in media processes and effects.
Communications^Multimedia Content Creation Multimedia Content Creation 3 Exploration and application of strategies to communicate ideas clearly, concisely, and effectively through multimedia content.
Communications^Crisis Communication in Global Contexts Crisis Communication in Global Contexts 3 Prepare, plan, and execute crisis communication and management to protect the continuity of an organization?s image and mission.
Communications^Ethics for Professionals Ethics for Professionals 3 The understanding, discussion, and application of key theories of individual and institutional ethics; the articulation and defense of ethical reasoning.
Communications^Research Methods for Professionals Research Methods for Professionals 3 Understanding the role of research in media and related organizations and its application to organizational decision making through quantitative and qualitative research methods including research design, questionnaire construction, sampling, data collection techniques, and variable measurement.
Communications^Communication Theory Communication Theory 3 Relevant theories and research from mass and interpersonal communication.
Communications^Theoretical Perspectives on Media and Society Theoretical Perspectives on Media and Society 3 Theories explaining the social and cultural environments of communication processes emphasizing in mass communication.
Communications^Mass Media, Social Control, and Social Change Mass Media, Social Control, and Social Change 3 Study of the forces that influence the media's role as an agent of social control or social change.
Communications^Media and Public Discourse Media and Public Discourse 3 Historical and contemporary concepts, questions and dynamics constituting the role of media and discourse among various publics.
Communications^Topics in Communication Topics in Communication 3
Communications^Qualitative Research Methods Qualitative Research Methods 3 Historical, textual, and legal methodologies for theory-based evaluative and discourse studies in communication.
Communications^Seminar in Communication Seminar in Communication 3
Philosophy^Introduction to Philosophy Introduction to Philosophy 3 Nature and place of philosophy in human thought; problems and achievements.
Philosophy^Introduction to Ethics Introduction to Ethics 3 Ethics through analysis of contemporary moral and social issues.
Philosophy^Writing and Reasoning Writing and Reasoning 3 Application of critical thinking skills to essay writing.
Philosophy^Elementary Logic Elementary Logic 3 Core logical concepts and formal syntax, semantics and proof procedures for categorical, propositional, and basic predicate logic.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Religion Philosophy of Religion 3 Critical inquiry into the existence and nature of God; the problem of evil; the relation of faith and reason; immortality and miracles. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Philosophy in Film Philosophy in Film 3 The use of film as philosophical text.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Religion of Islam Philosophy and Religion of Islam 3 Philosophical and religious framework of Islam. .
Philosophy^Philosophies and Religions of India Philosophies and Religions of India 3 Metaphysical, epistemological, ethical, aesthetic, social, and political views of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam, and their influence on Indian civilization. .
Philosophy^Philosophies and Religions of China and Japan Philosophies and Religions of China and Japan 3 The philosophies and religions of China and Japan, and their metaphysical, epistemological, ethical, social, and political positions and views of God and gods. .
Philosophy^History of Ancient and Medieval Philosophy History of Ancient and Medieval Philosophy 3 Pre-Socratics, Plato, Aristotle; post-Aristotelian philosophy to the Renaissance. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^History of Modern Philosophy History of Modern Philosophy 3 Renaissance, 17th and 18th century philosophers. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Nineteenth-century Philosophy Nineteenth-century Philosophy 3 The Continental, post-Kantian tradition, with emphasis on thinkers such as Hegel, Schopenhauer, Kierkegaard and Nietzsche. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Science Philosophy of Science 3 Purpose and logical structure of science; human implications. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Business Ethics Business Ethics 3 The principles of ethics as applied to specific problems in business faced by individuals and corporate institutions.
Philosophy^Biomedical Ethics Biomedical Ethics 3 Ethical problems in medicine and biological research.
Philosophy^Environmental Ethics Environmental Ethics 3 Explores the obligations we have regarding non-human parts of the environment and the justification for those obligations.
Philosophy^Topics in Philosophy Topics in Philosophy 3
Philosophy^Advanced Logic Advanced Logic 3 First-order predicate logic plus some metatheory, applications and/or extensions. Credit not granted for both PHIL 401 and PHIL 501.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Race Philosophy and Race 3 Examination of race within western philosophy including work of philosophers of color and analysis of the category race. .
Philosophy^Seminar in Philosophy of Religion Seminar in Philosophy of Religion 3
Philosophy^Mind of God and the Book of Nature: Science and Religion Mind of God and the Book of Nature: Science and Religion 3 Methodological comparison; cutting edge issues in science as they impact theism; guest lectures from professors in the natural sciences.
Philosophy^Contemporary Continental Philosophy Contemporary Continental Philosophy 3 Selected movements, figures, and issues in recent continental philosophy.
Philosophy^Kant Kant 3 Exploration of Kant's philosophy and the philosophies heavily influenced by Kant. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Philosophy and Feminism Philosophy and Feminism 3 Feminist philosophy as critique of Western philosophical tradition and as alternate framework for thought. .
Philosophy^Aesthetics and Philosophy of Art Aesthetics and Philosophy of Art 3 Philosophical exploration of aesthetics experience and any or all of the arts; emphasis on value considerations and comparisons of differing media. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^East/West Philosophy of Architecture East/West Philosophy of Architecture 3 East/West philosophies and their impact on understanding of nature and architecture.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Mind Philosophy of Mind 3 Theories of mind, self, mental acts, psychological states and artificial intelligence. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Language Philosophy of Language 3 Investigation of philosophical issues concerning meaning, reference, truth, the nature of language, and the relation between language and thought. Credit not granted for both PHIL 443 and PHIL 543. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Metaphysics Metaphysics 3 Issues and theories concerning free will and determinism, the nature of truth, the existence of God, space, time and identity. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Theory of Knowledge Theory of Knowledge 3 Problems and theories concerning skepticism, the nature and scope of knowledge, a priori knowledge, and induction. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Ethical Theory Ethical Theory 3 Problems of ethical theory as treated by historical and contemporary philosophers. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Women and Ethics Women and Ethics 3 Study of gender and feminism and their effect on contemporary ethical theories and issues. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Law Philosophy of Law 3 Credit not granted for both PHIL 470 and PHIL 570. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Social and Political Philosophy Social and Political Philosophy 3 Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Advanced Logic Advanced Logic 3 First-order predicate logic plus some metatheory, applications and/or extensions. Credit not granted for both PHIL 401 and PHIL 501.
Philosophy^Special Topics in Philosophy Special Topics in Philosophy 3
Philosophy^Seminar in Philosophy of Religion Seminar in Philosophy of Religion 3
Philosophy^Seminar in the History of Philosophy Seminar in the History of Philosophy 3
Philosophy^Seminar in Ethical Theory Seminar in Ethical Theory 3 The major issues, views, and figures of ethical theory from ancient Greece to the present. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Seminar in Metaphysics Seminar in Metaphysics 3 The nature of reality, through study of key concepts such as God, personhood, free will, causation, space, time, and identity. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Seminar in Epistemology Seminar in Epistemology 3 Classical problems, questions, and theories involving the concept of knowledge. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Bioethics Bioethics 2 Professional ethics for scientists; ethical implications of new technologies; obligations to human and non-human research subjects. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Seminar in Business Ethics Seminar in Business Ethics 3 The major issues in business ethics, both domestic and international, from general principles to specific cases. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Advanced Biomedical Ethics Advanced Biomedical Ethics 3 Current ethical issues in medical practice, medical research and public policy relating to health issues. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Ethics and Social Science Research Ethics and Social Science Research 3 Professional ethics for social science research, ethical conduct of research, obligations to human subjects and ethical implications of methods and technologies.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Language Philosophy of Language 3 Investigation of philosophical issues concerning meaning, reference, truth, the nature of language, and the relation between language and thought. Credit not granted for both PHIL 443 and PHIL 543. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Philosophy^Philosophy of Law Philosophy of Law 3 Selected topics pertaining to moral and philosophical evaluation of law. Credit not granted for both PHIL 470 and PHIL 570. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Introductory Psychology Introductory Psychology 3 Survey of the basic terms, processes, principles, and theories related to the scientific study of human behavior.
Psychology^Psychology Applied to Daily Living: Dealing with Friends, Alcohol, and Sex Psychology Applied to Daily Living: Dealing with Friends, Alcohol, and Sex 1 Application of psychological procedures to the problems of group living, alcohol use, sexual decision making and related social issues.
Psychology^Introduction to Addiction Studies Introduction to Addiction Studies 3 Analysis of cultural, societal, individual, and physiological factors underlying drug addiction.
Psychology^Human Sexuality Human Sexuality 3 Sexuality in personal development; personal, cultural, biological influences on sexual identification and behavior; fertility, reproduction, sexual functioning, sexuality and personality. .
Psychology^Biopsychological Effects of Alcohol and Other Drugs Biopsychological Effects of Alcohol and Other Drugs 3 Biopsychological effects of the major classes of abused and psychotherapeutic drugs, including alcohol, stimulants, sedatives and hallucinogens.
Psychology^Seminar in Psychology Seminar in Psychology V 1-3
Psychology^Industrial Psychology Industrial Psychology 3 Job analysis and evaluation; personnel recruitment and selection; design and evaluation of training systems; performance appraisals.
Psychology^Human Factors Human Factors 3 Human limitations and capabilities in architectural and engineering design; system analysis.
Psychology^Organizational Psychology Organizational Psychology 3 Employee motivation satisfaction and commitment; organizational communication; leadership; group behavior, teams and conflict; organizational change and development.
Psychology^Cultural Diversity in Organizations Cultural Diversity in Organizations 3 Psychology applied to cultural diversity in organizations; interpersonal and intergroup relationships; diversity training; EEO legislation and affirmative action.
Psychology^Pseudoscience and Human Behavior Pseudoscience and Human Behavior 3 Evaluation of scientific claims in the behavioral sciences and everyday life.
Psychology^Elementary Statistics in Psychology Elementary Statistics in Psychology 4 Descriptive statistics, probability, and inference; design and interpretation of research.
Psychology^Experimental Methods in Psychology Experimental Methods in Psychology 4 Designing, conducting, and reporting research in selected areas of experimental psychology.
Psychology^Health Psychology Health Psychology 3 Psychological and physiological aspects of stress; health behavior and disease prevention; adjustment to chronic illness.
Psychology^Introduction to Personality Introduction to Personality 3 Theories, concepts, methods, discoveries in psychology of personality.
Psychology^Psychology of Women Psychology of Women 3 Socialization and sex roles of women; a psychological perspective. .
Psychology^Self Control Self Control 3 Analysis of self-control problems; application of behavioral principles to student-conducted projects.
Psychology^Abnormal Psychology Abnormal Psychology 3 Problems of abnormality from traditional and evolving points of view; types, therapies, outcomes, preventive techniques.
Psychology^Assessment and Treatment of Dual Diagnosis Assessment and Treatment of Dual Diagnosis 3 Development of conceptual frameworks to guide the treatment and research of patient's co-occurring chemical dependency and psychiatric disorders.
Psychology^Social Psychology Social Psychology 3 Attitude changes, conformity, interpersonal relations, groups and social influences explored to give a coherent view of social psychology. .
Psychology^Principles of Developmental Psychology Principles of Developmental Psychology 3 Introduction to biological and psychosocial influences on infant, child and adolescent development.
Psychology^Psychology of Aging Psychology of Aging 3 Psychological processes of aging; changes in sensory, motor, cognitive, motivational and personality characteristics; research methodologies for the study of aging.
Psychology^Biological Basis of Behavior Biological Basis of Behavior 3 Functional relationship between nervous system and behavior; integrated organ systems, sensory processes, and investigative procedures. Occasional lab meetings required; see instructor for times.
Psychology^Sensation and Perception Sensation and Perception 3 Perception of size, depth, form, shape; illusions, contrast; historical and modern theories and research; applications and demonstrations.
Psychology^Historical Development of Psychology Historical Development of Psychology 3 Concepts, methods, theories, trends, and systems.
Psychology^Cultural Issues in Psychology Cultural Issues in Psychology 3 Multidisciplinary analyses of the relationship between social-ecological and political contexts and individual and collective psychology. .
Psychology^Psychological Testing and Measurement Psychological Testing and Measurement 3 Assessment of behavioral variables in humans; individual differences.
Psychology^Clinical/Community Psychology Clinical/Community Psychology 3 Professional problems; theory, training, relations with clients, institutions, public.
Psychology^Advanced Addiction Treatment Techniques Advanced Addiction Treatment Techniques 4 Advanced addiction treatment approaches for individuals, couples, families and groups within a human services framework; integration of relapse prevention techniques.
Psychology^Basic Helping Skills Basic Helping Skills 3 Training in basic skills to work with varied types of clients; didactic and role play instruction.
Psychology^Undergraduate Practicum Undergraduate Practicum V 1 to 3
Psychology^Behavior Disorders of Children and Adolescents Behavior Disorders of Children and Adolescents 3 Theoretical and empirical approaches to the description, etiology, and treatment of behavior disorders in children and adolescents.
Psychology^Neuropsychology of Learning Disorders Neuropsychology of Learning Disorders 3 Biological and cognitive aspects of learning disorders including etiology, common cognitive deficits, and treatment of cognitive dysfunction.
Psychology^Environmental Psychology Environmental Psychology 3 Psychological concepts applied to the mixture of positive and negative interactions individuals have with their physical environment.
Psychology^Addictive Behavior Across the Demographic Spectrum Addictive Behavior Across the Demographic Spectrum 3 Overview of social, cultural and historical perspectives on dealing with addictive behavior. .
Psychology^Motivation Motivation 3 Different motivational systems; analysis of environmental and biological factors influencing motivation, with emphasis on human motivation.
Psychology^Advanced Biological Basis of Behavior Advanced Biological Basis of Behavior 3 Neurophysiological, hormonal, and biochemical bases of regulatory behavior; theoretical and applied issues.
Psychology^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Psychology^Cognition and Memory Cognition and Memory 3 Human information processing, memory, and cognition.
Psychology^Principles of Learning Principles of Learning 3 Principles of learning from a behavioral perspective using the experimental analysis of behavior. Credit not granted for both PSYCH 491 and 591.
Psychology^Psychology of Language Psychology of Language 3 The cognitive and neuropsychological processes involved in the acquisition and use of language; cross-cultural perspectives on language and thought.
Psychology^Field Experience in Personnel Psychology Field Experience in Personnel Psychology V 2 to 6
Psychology^Cooperative Education Internship Cooperative Education Internship V 2-6
Psychology^Instructional Practicum Instructional Practicum V 1-4
Psychology^Research Participation Research Participation V 1-4
Psychology^Research Design Research Design V 1-3
Psychology^History of Psychology: Theoretical and Scientific Foundations History of Psychology: Theoretical and Scientific Foundations 3 D. student in Psychology. Roots of scientific explanation in psychology traced through various philosophical schools and psychological movements.
Psychology^Teaching Introductory Psychology Teaching Introductory Psychology V 1-3
Psychology^Current Research in Psychology Current Research in Psychology 1
Psychology^Special Topics in Psychology Special Topics in Psychology V 1-3
Psychology^Introduction to Online Instruction Introduction to Online Instruction 1 D student in Psychology. Instruction in teaching online courses addressing issues faced by instructors and students; students are mentored while teaching online.
Psychology^Analysis of Variance and Experimental Design Analysis of Variance and Experimental Design 3 D. student in Psychology or Business Administration. Parametric, nonparametric, repeated-measures, and multivariate ANOVA; planned comparisons; confidence intervals and power analysis; experimental design and variants.
Psychology^Correlation, Regression, and Quasi-Experimental Design Correlation, Regression, and Quasi-Experimental Design 3 D. student in Psychology or Business Administration. Simple and multiple correlation and regression; time-series analysis; factor analysis; field research and quasi-experimental design.
Psychology^Seminar in Quantitative Methods and Research Design Seminar in Quantitative Methods and Research Design 3
Psychology^Psychometrics Psychometrics 3 Scientific construction of behavioral assessment instruments, including validation and reliability; types of scales and responses; statistical scaling; test theory issues.
Psychology^Multilevel and Synthesized Data Multilevel and Synthesized Data 3 Structural equation modeling, hierarchical linear modeling and meta-analysis and the software used to conduct these analyses.
Psychology^Applied Structural Equation Modeling with Current Software Applied Structural Equation Modeling with Current Software 3 Confirmatory factor analysis, path analysis, structural regression analysis, multilevel analysis and latent growth analysis with current software.
Psychology^Empirical Approaches to Psychotherapy Empirical Approaches to Psychotherapy 3 Major therapy systems, research on process and outcome of therapy.
Psychology^Professional, Ethical, and Legal Issues Professional, Ethical, and Legal Issues 3 D. student in Psychology. Application of professional, ethical, and legal issues in clinical psychology to such topics as confidentiality, dual-relationships, research, assessment, and intervention.
Psychology^Adult Psychopathology Adult Psychopathology 3 D. student in Psychology. Theoretical and empirical approaches to diagnosis, etiology and treatment of mental disorders. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Clinical Psychopharmacology Clinical Psychopharmacology 3 D. student in Clinical or Counseling Psychology. Classification, clinical application, and mechanisms of psychotherapeutic drugs used in the treatment of mental disorders.
Psychology^Personality Assessment and Diagnosis Personality Assessment and Diagnosis 3 D. student in Psychology. Diagnostic interviewing, conceptualization of clinical problems, case presentations, and treatment planning.
Psychology^Measurement Theory and Personality Assessment Measurement Theory and Personality Assessment 3 Psychometric theory, theories of personality, objective and projective methods of assessing personality, development of testing and interpretive skills.
Psychology^Psychology Clinic Assessment Practicum Psychology Clinic Assessment Practicum 3
Psychology^Child Therapy Practicum Child Therapy Practicum 3
Psychology^Intellectual and Neuropsychological Assessment Intellectual and Neuropsychological Assessment 3 D. student in Psychology. Psychometric theory, theories of intelligence, methods of appraising intelligence in children and adults, and development of testing and interpretive skills.
Psychology^Child and Adolescent Psychopathology Child and Adolescent Psychopathology 3 Theoretical and empirical approaches to etiology and diagnosis of mental disorders in children.
Psychology^Child Clinical Psychology: Empirical Approaches to Assessment and Therapy Child Clinical Psychology: Empirical Approaches to Assessment and Therapy 3 D. student in Psychology. Research on child assessment and therapy.
Psychology^Medical Psychology: Psychological and Pharmacological Interventions Medical Psychology: Psychological and Pharmacological Interventions 3 D. student in Clinical or Counseling Psychology. Psychological factors and their influence upon the causes and/or course of medical illnesses as well as relevant clinical interventions. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Psychology Clinic Assessment and Psychotherapy Practicum Psychology Clinic Assessment and Psychotherapy Practicum 3
Psychology^Counseling Service Practicum Counseling Service Practicum V 1-3
Psychology^Medical Psychology Practicum Medical Psychology Practicum 3
Psychology^Clinical Externship Clinical Externship V 1-3
Psychology^Social Psychology Social Psychology 3 D. student in Psychology. Attitude structure, function, and change; social cognition and motivation, and attributions. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Diversity Issues in Psychology Diversity Issues in Psychology 3 D. student in Psychology. Research, theories, and controversies regarding the role of human diversity in psychotherapy, psychological assessment, and clinical research.
Psychology^Clinical and Experimental Biopsychology Clinical and Experimental Biopsychology 3 D. student in Psychology. Neuroanatomical, neurochemical, and other biological cases of human and animal behavior. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Foundations of Neuropsychology Foundations of Neuropsychology 3 D. student in Psychology. Foundations in brain/behavior relationships and neuropathological syndromes; preparation for advanced training in neuropsychological assessment. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Behavioral Pharmacology Behavioral Pharmacology 3 Survey of drugs which affect brain function with emphasis on animal models and clinical applications.
Psychology^Sensory Bases of Behavior Sensory Bases of Behavior 3 Sensory and physiological aspects of vision, audition, and other senses. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Psychology^Principles of Learning Principles of Learning 3 Principles of learning from a behavioral perspective using the experimental analysis of behavior. Credit not granted for both PSYCH 491 and 591.
Psychology^Cognition and Affective Basis of Behavior Cognition and Affective Basis of Behavior 3 D. student in Psychology. Experimental approaches to human information processing, memory, and cognition.
Psychology^Clinical Internship in Psychology Clinical Internship in Psychology V 2-16
Psychology^Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination V 1-18
Electrical Engineering^Design of Logic Circuits Design of Logic Circuits 4 Design and application of combinational logic circuits with exposure to modern methods and design tools; introduction to sequential logic circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Numerical Computing for Engineers Numerical Computing for Engineers 2 Solutions to engineering problems using modern software tools such as Matlab.
Electrical Engineering^Microprocessor Systems Microprocessor Systems 4 Microprocessor system architecture, instruction sets, and interfacing; assembly language programming.
Electrical Engineering^Electrical Circuits I Electrical Circuits I 3 Application of fundamental concepts of electrical science in linear circuit analysis; mathematical models of electric components and circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Electrical Circuits Laboratory I Electrical Circuits Laboratory I 1 Electrical instruments; laboratory applications of electric laws; transient and steady-state responses of electrical circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Professional Skills in Computing and Engineering Professional Skills in Computing and Engineering 3 Course prerequisite: Certified major in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or Electrical Engineering; junior standing. Foundation in computing and engineering professional development. . Credit not granted for both CPT S/E E 302 and CPT S 401.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Electrical Circuits Introduction to Electrical Circuits 2 Basic DC and AC circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Electronics Electronics 3 Fundamental device characteristics including diodes, MOSFETs and bipolar transistors; small- and large-signal characteristics and design of linear circuits.
Electrical Engineering^Electrical Circuits II Electrical Circuits II 3 State space analysis, Laplace transforms, network functions, frequency response, Fourier series, two-ports, energy and passivity.
Electrical Engineering^Fundamentals of Digital Systems Fundamentals of Digital Systems 4 Design and analysis of synchronous sequential machines; module and bit-slice devices; alternative architectures; system-level design; asynchronous sequential machines.
Electrical Engineering^Electromagnetic Fields and Waves Electromagnetic Fields and Waves 3 Certification not required. Students will be required to pass a math skills test. Fundamentals of transmission lines, electrostatics, magnetostatics, and Maxwell's Equations for static fields.
Electrical Engineering^Computer Architecture Computer Architecture 3 Modern developments in digital system design, parallel structures, pipelining, input/output, high speed circuits, laboratory experience in digital system design; emphasis on CPU architecture.
Electrical Engineering^Signals and Systems Signals and Systems 3 Discrete and continuous-time signals, LTI systems, convolution, sampling, Fourier transform, Z-transform, filtering, DFT, amplitude and frequency modulation.
Electrical Engineering^Distributed Parameter Systems Distributed Parameter Systems 3 Maxwell's equations, plane waves, waveguides, resonators, antennas, numerical methods.
Electrical Engineering^Electrical Engineering Laboratory I Electrical Engineering Laboratory I 3 Experiments in electrical circuits, measurements and electronics; principles of measurements and measuring instruments.
Electrical Engineering^Electrical Power Systems Electrical Power Systems 3 Power system hardware; transformers, and electromechanical machinery; introduction to power system operation.
Electrical Engineering^Power System Laboratory I Power System Laboratory I 3 Experiments in simulation, modeling, transformers, rotating machines, and transmission lines.
Electrical Engineering^Design Project Management Design Project Management 2 Project scheduling/planning, technical writing, oral presentation skills, working in teams, TQC, TQM, market-driven organizations.
Electrical Engineering^Electrical Engineering Design Electrical Engineering Design 3 Electrical engineering design of specific projects including design specification; written and oral presentations and reports.
Electrical Engineering^RF and Microwave Circuits and Systems RF and Microwave Circuits and Systems 4 Design and implementation of RF/microwave modules and systems for telecommunications; microstrip, filters, mixers, amplifiers, frequency synthesizers and transceivers.
Electrical Engineering^RF Engineering for Telecommunications RF Engineering for Telecommunications 4 System and propagation issues for wireless telecommunications; cellular, PC
Electrical Engineering^ASIC and Digital Systems Design ASIC and Digital Systems Design 3 Application Specific Integrated Circuit and Digital System Design methods, semi-custom, full-custom, and field-programmable devices; digital system architectures, electronics, and tests.
Electrical Engineering^Critical Infrastructure Security: The Emerging Smart Grid Critical Infrastructure Security: The Emerging Smart Grid 3 Smart electric grid, communication networks, distributed computing, fault tolerant computing, cyber security, analyzing interdependencies between the smart grid components, smart grid standards and protocols. .
Electrical Engineering^Digital Communication Systems Digital Communication Systems 3 Digital communication techniques; performance of digital communication systems in noise; matched filter detection; quantization. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Computer Networks Introduction to Computer Networks 3 Concepts and implementation of computer networks; architectures, protocol layers, internetworking and addressing case studies. .
Electrical Engineering^Digital Signal Processing I Digital Signal Processing I 3 Discrete and fast Fourier transforms; Z-transform; sampling; discrete convolution; digital filter design; effects of quantization.
Electrical Engineering^VLSI Design VLSI Design 3 Very Large Scale Integrated circuit, system and physical design using CAD software; project specification, modeling, implementation, documentation and reporting.
Electrical Engineering^Concepts in Biotechnology Concepts in Biotechnology 3 Fundamentals of biological sciences and biotechnology for engineers and computer scientists. .
Electrical Engineering^Analog Integrated Circuits Analog Integrated Circuits 3 Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits in CMOS and BiCMOS technologies; current mirrors, gain stages, operational amplifiers, frequency response, and compensation. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Electrical Engineering^Analog Integrated Circuits Laboratory Analog Integrated Circuits Laboratory 2 Laboratory applications of E E 476 including the computer-aided design of analog integrated circuits; emphasis on design documentation and reporting.
Electrical Engineering^Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering V 1 to 3
Electrical Engineering^Power Electronics Power Electronics 3 Analysis and modeling of power electronics-based converters, steady state operation, converter topologies, non-ideal effects; power supplies; applications. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Introduction to Control Systems Introduction to Control Systems 3 State variable models, system response, stability analysis, root locus analysis and design; frequency-response and state-space analysis and design.
Electrical Engineering^Performance of Power Systems Performance of Power Systems 3 Static and dynamic behavior of power systems, powerflow, and economic considerations.
Electrical Engineering^Renewable Energy Sources Renewable Energy Sources 3 Design of electrical generation plants using wind, solar and other renewable energy sources including technical, environmental and economic aspects.
Electrical Engineering^Protection of Power Systems I Protection of Power Systems I 3 Analysis and equipment fundamentals of power system protection; symmetrical components, fault calculations; fuses; and relays including burden calculations.
Electrical Engineering^Protective Relay Labs Protective Relay Labs 2 Experiments and measurements of protective relay equipment under test, simulated fault and fault conditions.
Electrical Engineering^Internship in Electrical Industry Internship in Electrical Industry V 2-4
Electrical Engineering^Semiconductor Devices Semiconductor Devices 3 Equilibrium statistics of electrons and holes; carrier dynamics; p-n junctions, metal-semiconductor junctions, BJTs, Mosfets, solar cells, and LEDs.
Electrical Engineering^Linear System Theory Linear System Theory 3 Dynamic systems from the state variable approach; observability, controllability, stability, and sensitivity of differential and nondifferential systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Linear Multivariable Control Linear Multivariable Control 3 Optimal linear feedback control, optimal stochastic observers, LQG/LTR design methodology, modern Wiener-Hopf design, robust controllers. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Structure, Dynamics and Control of Large-scale Networks Structure, Dynamics and Control of Large-scale Networks 3 Introduction and development of computational and analytical methods required to characterize large-scale networks.
Electrical Engineering^Modern Optics Modern Optics 3 Diffraction theory, Fourier transforming and imaging properties of lenses, spatial filtering, holography, temporal and spatial coherence, imaging through random media. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Nonlinear System Theory Nonlinear System Theory 3 Overview of nonlinear phenomena, Lyapunov stability, input-output stability, periodic orbits, singular perturbation, differential geometric methods, bifurcations and complex behaviors.
Electrical Engineering^Random Processes in Engineering Random Processes in Engineering 3 Functions of random variables; random sequences; stochastic processes; mean-square stochastic calculus; ergodicity; spectral density; linear transformations, filtering, dynamic systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Estimation Theory for Signal Processing, Communications, and Control Estimation Theory for Signal Processing, Communications, and Control 3 Principles of statistical estimation; LLSE; Kalman filtering; smoothing; prediction; maximum- likelihood and Bayesian estimation.
Electrical Engineering^Adaptive Control Adaptive Control 3 Model reference adaptive systems , adaptive observers, adaptive control, on-line identification, robustness issues, self-tuning regulators.
Electrical Engineering^Protection of Power Systems II Protection of Power Systems II 3 Protection of electrical equipment as related to electric power systems with emphasis on digital algorithms. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Electromagnetic Theory I Advanced Electromagnetic Theory I 3 Electromagnetic waves, electromagnetic theorems and concepts, solutions to the wave equation in rectangular, cylindrical and spherical coordinates. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Plasma Engineering Plasma Engineering 3 Electromagnetics, kinetic theory, and fluid mechanics of plasmas in space, arcs, plasma processing, coronas, and fusion reactors.
Electrical Engineering^Analysis of Power Systems Analysis of Power Systems 3 Concepts and practices of modern power engineering, including steady-state and dynamic analysis, economics and control design.
Electrical Engineering^High Voltage Engineering High Voltage Engineering 3 High voltage engineering concepts and techniques that facilitate design, research, and development of modern electric power apparatus and interconnected components.
Electrical Engineering^Power Systems Stability and Control Power Systems Stability and Control 3 Dynamic analysis of interconnected electric power system; modeling of synchronous generators, loads and transmission network; small-signal stability and transient stability analysis; dynamic stability controls.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Computer Architecture Advanced Computer Architecture 3 Instruction set architectures, pipelining and super pipelining, instruction level parallelism, superscalar and VLIW processors, cache memory, thread-level parallelism and VLSI.
Electrical Engineering^Power System Applications of Power Electronics Power System Applications of Power Electronics 3 Power electronic converters in modern power systems, FACTS devices, HVDC, compensation; microgrids and integration renewable energy resources; modeling and control.
Electrical Engineering^High Voltage Overhead Transmission Lines High Voltage Overhead Transmission Lines 3 Electrical analysis, performance, and design of high voltage transmission lines; power capacity, electromagnetic environment, electromagnetic compatibility, measurements, grounding.
Electrical Engineering^Antenna Theory and Design Antenna Theory and Design 3 Antenna fundamentals, analytical techniques, characteristics and design procedures for selected types of wire, broadband, and aperture antennas. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Electromagnetics Advanced Topics in Electromagnetics 3
Electrical Engineering^Digital Signal Processing II Digital Signal Processing II 3 Frequency selective digital filtering, least-squares filtering, adaptive filtering, multirate signal processing.
Electrical Engineering^Numerical Solutions to EM Problems Numerical Solutions to EM Problems 3 Theory and use of finite-difference time-domain; numeric dispersion; absorbing boundary conditions; scattering; radiation; time-domain vs. frequency-domain.
Electrical Engineering^Power Systems Economics and Electricity Markets Power Systems Economics and Electricity Markets 3 Economic dispatch and optimal power flow; electricity market; short-term load forecasting; electricity price forecasting; price-based unit commitment; arbitrage in electricity markets; market power analysis.
Electrical Engineering^Data Compression Data Compression 3 Source coding with a fidelity criterion; quantization theory; predictive, transform and subband coding; noiseless source codes.
Electrical Engineering^Information Theory and Channel Coding Information Theory and Channel Coding 3 Information theory; entropy, mutual information, source and channel coding theorems, channel capacity, Gaussian channels; channel coding: block and convolutional codes.
Electrical Engineering^Data Communication Systems Data Communication Systems 3 Digital communications; multi-amplitude/phase signal constellations; probability of error performance; cutoff rate; Viterbi algorithm; trellis coded modulation.
Electrical Engineering^Computer Communication Networks Computer Communication Networks 3 Packet switching networks; multi-access and local-area networks; delay models in data networks; routing and flow control. .
Electrical Engineering^Fault Tolerant Computer Systems Fault Tolerant Computer Systems 3 Fault tolerance aspects involved in design and evaluation of systems; methods of detection and recovery; multicast, middleware, and reconfiguration. .
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Wireless Integrated Circuits and Systems Advanced Wireless Integrated Circuits and Systems 3 Analysis and design methodologies of state-of-the-art wireless integrated circuits and systems.
Electrical Engineering^Analog Integrated Circuits Analog Integrated Circuits 3 Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits in CMOS and BiCMOS technologies; current mirrors, gain stages, operational amplifiers, frequency response, and compensation. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Power Systems Advanced Topics in Power Systems V 2-3
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Topics Advanced Topics V 1-3
Electrical Engineering^VLSI Systems Design VLSI Systems Design 3 VLSI models, layout algorithms, design methodologies, simulation and layout tools, algorithm design for VLSI implementation.
Electrical Engineering^System on Chip (SoC) Design and Test System on Chip (SoC) Design and Test 3 System on Chip and sub-micron integrated circuit design and testing.
Electrical Engineering^Directed Study in Electrical Engineering Directed Study in Electrical Engineering V 1 to 3
Electrical Engineering^Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits 3 MOS and BiCMOS technologies; MOS and BiCMOS operational amplifiers; A/D, D/A converters; switched-capacitor filters; continuous-time filters.
Sports and Recreation^Sport and Popular Culture: Trends and Issues Sport and Popular Culture: Trends and Issues 3 Explores how sport shapes or reinforces cultural and social values and ideologies.
Sports and Recreation^Introduction of Sport Management Introduction of Sport Management 3 Course 5 cumulative gpa. Principles and concepts in sport management; overview of sport industries and career opportunities. Not open to seniors or first-year students during their first semester.
Sports and Recreation^Sport Programs Sport Programs 3 Course 5 cumulative gpa. Philosophies and program content of public/private sport programs; laboratory experiences in school, college, and community sport programs.
Sports and Recreation^Ethics and Moral Reasoning in Sport Ethics and Moral Reasoning in Sport 3 Understanding and application of ethical theory and principles of moral reasoning to the analysis of issues and dilemmas in sport.
Sports and Recreation^Sport in American Society Sport in American Society 3 Examination of the role of sport in contemporary American society as well as the relationship between sport and other social institutions.
Sports and Recreation^Sport Finance Sport Finance 3 Introduction to financial analysis, budgeting and revenue acquisition for both for profit and not for profit sport organizations.
Sports and Recreation^Legal Aspects of Sport Legal Aspects of Sport 3 Legal aspects of the supervision, management and business of sport.
Sports and Recreation^Media and Communication in Sport Media and Communication in Sport 3 Introduction to media and communication tools for sport management purposes.
Sports and Recreation^Practicum in Sport Management Practicum in Sport Management V 1-4
Sports and Recreation^Professional Work Experience Professional Work Experience V 1-6 Course Paid or volunteer, off-campus work experience with a sport organization.
Sports and Recreation^Sport Marketing Sport Marketing 3 An examination of sport as a consumer product and as a medium by which to sell consumer products.
Sports and Recreation^Managing Sport Organizations Managing Sport Organizations 3 Analysis of management processes and structures of sport organizations.
Sports and Recreation^Current Trends in Sport Management Current Trends in Sport Management 2 Current trends and issues; research resources; professional presentations.
Sports and Recreation^Theory and Application in Sports Event Management Theory and Application in Sports Event Management 3 Investigation and application of the components of the sport management profession.
Sports and Recreation^Internship Seminar Internship Seminar 1 Overview of policies and requirements; guidance through site selection and application process; communication skills for the business/sport environment.
Sports and Recreation^Special Topics in Sport Management Special Topics in Sport Management V 1-3
Sports and Recreation^Current Issues in Sport Management Current Issues in Sport Management 3 Solutions-oriented investigation of current issues faced by sport managers/administrators; interpretation of research literature; procedures for issue resolution.
Sports and Recreation^Marketing of Sport Events and Programs Marketing of Sport Events and Programs 3 Principles of sport marketing including public relations, corporate sponsorship, and service quality for sport organizations.
Sports and Recreation^Ethical Perspectives of Sport and Physical Activity Ethical Perspectives of Sport and Physical Activity 3 Ontological, ethical, aesthetic views of physical activity. Required preparation must include SPMGT 365 or equivalent.
Sports and Recreation^Social and Cultural Issues of Physical Activity and Sport Social and Cultural Issues of Physical Activity and Sport 3 Sport and physical activity as cultural forms, including the examination of subcultures, stratification, socialization and power relations.
Sports and Recreation^Administrative Concepts in Sport Organizations Administrative Concepts in Sport Organizations 3 Effective management for sport programs. Analysis of dynamic management process necessary for improvement of productivity in sport organizations.
Sports and Recreation^Sport in Higher Education Sport in Higher Education 3 The course examines sport in higher education institutions from the historical, cultural, and administrative perspectives.
Sports and Recreation^Law and Risk Management in the Sport Industry Law and Risk Management in the Sport Industry 3 Use of risk management perspective to explore the law as it applies to the management concerns of sport organizations. Required preparation must include SPMGT 377 or equivalent.
Sports and Recreation^Sports in Society Sports in Society 3 The social significance of sports; sociology of sport research. Required preparation must include SPMGT 367 or equivalent.
Sports and Recreation^Sport Media and Communication Sport Media and Communication 3 Explores and critically examines the role of media and communication in contemporary sports and society.
German^First Semester First Semester 4 Fundamentals of speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Not open to native speakers except with permission.
German^Second Semester Second Semester 4 Continued development of basic skills in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Not open to native speakers except with permission. Required preparation must include GERMAN 101 with a grade of C or better or equivalent proficiency.
German^Elementary Conversation Elementary Conversation 1
German^German Film German Film 3 Taught in English. Introduction to German film.
German^Germanic Culture Germanic Culture 3 Taught in English. The cultural development of the Germanic peoples to 1990.
German^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-6
German^Third Semester Third Semester 4 Further development of speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills. Not open to native speakers except with permission. Required preparation must include GERMAN 102 with a grade of C or better or equivalent proficiency.
German^Fourth Semester Fourth Semester 4 Continued practice in spoken and written language; selected texts in a cultural context. Not open to native speakers except with permission. Required preparation must include GERMAN 203 with a grade of C or better or equivalent proficiency.
German^Intermediate Conversation I Intermediate Conversation I 1
German^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-6
German^Intermediate Conversation II Intermediate Conversation II 1
German^Intermediate Speaking and Listening Intermediate Speaking and Listening 3 Systematic development of speaking and listening proficiency; emphasis on pronunciation and phonetics. Not open to native speakers except with permission. Required preparation must include GERMAN 204 with a grade of C or better or equivalent proficiency.
German^Intermediate Grammar and Writing Intermediate Grammar and Writing 3 Writing practice in the language and active review of grammar. Not open to native speakers except with permission. Required preparation must include GERMAN 204 with a grade of C or better or equivalent proficiency. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
German^German Film German Film 3 Study of important German films. Taught in German.
German^German Culture German Culture 3 Introduction to German culture. Taught in German. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
German^Introduction to German Literature Introduction to German Literature 3 Survey of masterpieces of German literature. Taught in German.
German^German for the Professions German for the Professions 3 Course Prerequisites: GERMAN 204 with a C or better. Language and intercultural skills necessary for effective oral and written communication in professional settings in German-speaking countries. Taught in German.
German^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-6
German^Advanced Grammar and Writing Advanced Grammar and Writing 3 Development of advanced proficiency in writing.
German^Socio-Cultural History of the German Language Socio-Cultural History of the German Language 3 Historical survey of the German language, observing domestic and foreign societal influences, considering present and future language directions.
German^Seminar in German Studies - Themes Seminar in German Studies - Themes 3
German^Seminar in German Studies - Authors Seminar in German Studies - Authors 3
German^Seminar in German Studies - Genres Seminar in German Studies - Genres 3
German^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-6
Civil Engineering^Statics Statics 3 Engineering mechanics concepts; force systems; static equilibrium; centroids, centers of gravity; shear and moment diagrams; friction; moments of inertia. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Mechanics of Materials Mechanics of Materials 3 Concepts of stress, strain, and their relationships; axial loads, torsion and bending; combined stress; properties of materials; columns, repeated loadings. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Surveying Introduction to Surveying 2 Surveying data collection, analysis and application; measuring distances and angles using total stations and global positioning systems; analysis of errors in measurements.
Civil Engineering^Civil Engineering Computer Applications Civil Engineering Computer Applications 2  Advanced civil engineering computer applications including Geographical Information Systems, Revit, and Excel.
Civil Engineering^Fluid Mechanics Fluid Mechanics 3 Fluid statics, laminar and turbulent flow, similitude, pipe flow, boundary layer, lift and drag and measurement techniques.
Civil Engineering^Geotechnical Engineering I Geotechnical Engineering I 4 Structure, index properties, and classification of soils; compaction; effective stress; seepage; consolidation and shear strength.
Civil Engineering^Transportation Engineering Transportation Engineering 3 Road-vehicle interaction, geometric design, traffic flow and queuing theory, highway capacity and level of service, and introduction to pavement design and materials.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Structural Engineering Introduction to Structural Engineering 3 Introduction to structural analysis and design; structural modeling; design philosophies; deflections; indeterminate analysis by the Force Method.
Civil Engineering^Introduction to Environmental Engineering Introduction to Environmental Engineering 3 Impact of pollutants on the environment; pollution sources and sinks; engineering aspects of air and water quality; introduction to pollution control.
Civil Engineering^Water Resources Engineering Water Resources Engineering 3 Application of fluid mechanics to hydraulic infrastructure, principles of open channel flow, and introduction to surface and ground water hydrology.
Civil Engineering^Highway Materials Engineering Highway Materials Engineering 3 Basic properties and mix designs of aggregates, asphalt, concrete and recycled materials; quality assurance, quality control.
Civil Engineering^Climate Change Science and Engineering Climate Change Science and Engineering 3 Engineering solutions for climate change problems; basic science of climate change, engineering for mitigation and adaptation, and climate change policy.
Civil Engineering^Applied Meteorology Applied Meteorology 3 Atmospheric physical behavior across spatial scales linking concepts of meteorological phenomena to engineering design principles. Credit not granted for both CE 402 and CE 502. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Air Quality Management Air Quality Management 3 Air pollution from the perspective of an environmental manager; regulatory framework, management strategies, monitoring, modeling tools, and control technologies. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Sustainability: Green Engineering Sustainability: Green Engineering 3 Focus on the LEED green building rating system with topics on sustainable site selection, alternative transportation, heat island effect, light pollution, water and energy efficiency/use, regional and global climate/air issues, use/reuse of many material and resources, and indoor environmental quality. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Structural Design Laboratory Structural Design Laboratory 3 Senior lab requiring integration of previous course work into the execution of design projects and the assessment of experimental test data; design codes and standards, load determination, load path, influence lines; applications in concrete, masonry, steel, and wood.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Measurements Environmental Measurements 3 Theory and laboratory measurement techniques used in analyzing environmental quality parameters. Credit not granted for both CE 415 and CE 515. Required preparation must include CE 341. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Hydraulic Engineering Laboratory Hydraulic Engineering Laboratory 3 Experiments related to fluid flow principles and their application to hydraulic engineering.
Civil Engineering^Hazardous Waste Engineering Hazardous Waste Engineering V 3-4 Hazardous waste properties, chemodynamics, and health effects; introduction to risk assessment and hazardous waste remediation. Credit not granted for both CE 418 and CE 518. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Hazardous Waste Treatment Hazardous Waste Treatment 3 Principles of operation and application of processes in design of technologies used in hazardous waste treatment and remediation. Credit not granted for both CE 419 and CE 519. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Soil and Site Improvement Soil and Site Improvement 3 Compaction theory and methods; deep densification of soils; advanced consolidation theory, preloading, vertical drains, chemical stabilization, grouting; design with geosynthetics. Credit not granted for both CE 425 and CE 525. Required preparation must include CE 317. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Analysis of Indeterminate Structures Analysis of Indeterminate Structures 3 Stiffness methods for the analysis of trusses, beams, and frames; matrix models; and computer applications.
Civil Engineering^Structural Steel Design Structural Steel Design 3 Design of steel structures by load and resistance factor design ; behavior and design of beams, columns, tension members and connections.
Civil Engineering^Reinforced Concrete Design Reinforced Concrete Design 3 Behavior, analysis, and design of reinforced concrete structures; flexure; shear; bond; serviceability requirements; design of beams, columns, and slabs.
Civil Engineering^Prestressed Concrete and Reinforced Masonry Design Prestressed Concrete and Reinforced Masonry Design 3 Behavior, analysis, and design of pretensioned and post-tensioned prestressed concrete structures; behavior and design of reinforced masonry structures. Credit not granted for both CE 434 and CE 534. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Foundations Foundations 3 Site investigation; bearing capacity, settlement and design of shallow foundations, piles and piers; design of retaining walls.
Civil Engineering^Design of Timber Structures Design of Timber Structures 3 Engineering properties of wood materials; analysis and design of members, connections, trusses, shearwalls and structural diaphragms; durability and moisture effects on engineered wood products. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Structural Composites Design Structural Composites Design 3 Behavior, analysis and design of fiber-reinforced plastic composite structures; micro, ply and laminate mechanics; reinforcement of concrete and wood.
Civil Engineering^Water and Wastewater Treatment Design Water and Wastewater Treatment Design 3 Water and wastewater treatment processes and design.
Civil Engineering^Hydraulic Engineering Design Hydraulic Engineering Design 3 Hydraulic design and planning of facilities associated with gravity controlled and pressurized flow. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Open Channel Flow Open Channel Flow 3 Steady, non-uniform flow; controls and transitions in fixed-bed channels. Credit not granted for both CE 451 and CE 551. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Sustainable Development in Water Resources Sustainable Development in Water Resources 3 Sources of freshwater in Pacific Northwest; water demands; climate change impacts on water availability; approaches for developing sustainable water yield.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Hydrology Advanced Hydrology 3 Components of the hydrologic cycle; conceptual models; watershed characteristics; probability/statistics in data analysis; hydrographs; computer models; and design applications. Credit not granted for both CE 460 and CE 560. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Administration Engineering Administration 3 Engineering economy; annual cost, present worth, rate of return, and benefit-cost ratio in engineering decision making; basic contract law.
Civil Engineering^Integrated Civil Engineering Design Integrated Civil Engineering Design 3 Civil engineering applications to planning and design; problem synthesis, data analysis, decision making and reporting; design of complete projects that include local and world wide problems through interdisciplinary teams.
Civil Engineering^Fundamentals of Engineering Examination Review Fundamentals of Engineering Examination Review 1 Review of topics to prepare for the Fundamentals of Engineering Examination.
Civil Engineering^Pavement Design Pavement Design 3 Pavement performance evaluation, material characterization, traffic analysis, pavement structural response analysis, transfer function application, and pavement design procedures for both flexible and rigid pavements.
Civil Engineering^Groundwater Groundwater 3 Introduction to groundwater occurrence, movement, quality, and resource management, emphasizing physical and biogeochemical principles. Field trip required. .
Civil Engineering^Ethics and Professionalism Ethics and Professionalism 1 Professional aspects of civil engineering.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Internship Engineering Internship V 1-4
Civil Engineering^Special Topics in Civil Engineering Special Topics in Civil Engineering V 1-4
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Transportation Engineering Advanced Topics in Transportation Engineering V 2-4
Civil Engineering^Applied Meteorology Applied Meteorology 3 Atmospheric physical behavior across spatial scales linking concepts of meteorological phenomena to engineering design principles. Credit not granted for both CE 402 and CE 502. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Air Quality Management Air Quality Management 3 Air pollution from the perspective of an environmental manager; regulatory framework, management strategies, monitoring, modeling tools, and control technologies. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Sustainability Engineering I Sustainability Engineering I 3 Green building and sustainable development topics including low impact development stormwater design and environmental life cycle assessment .
Civil Engineering^Sustainability: Green Engineering Sustainability: Green Engineering 3 Focus on the LEED green building rating system with topics on sustainable site selection, alternative transportation, heat island effect, light pollution, water and energy efficiency/use, regional and global climate/air issues, use/reuse of many material and resources, and indoor environmental quality. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Theory and Measurement of Turbulent Fluxes Theory and Measurement of Turbulent Fluxes 3 Fundamental concepts of turbulence and turbulent fluxes in the atmospheric surface later, the statistical description of turbulence and turbulent fluxes, eddy covariance systems, and post-filed processing of flux data.
Civil Engineering^Sustainability: Life Cycle Assessment Sustainability: Life Cycle Assessment 3 Principles of life cycle assessment , environmental impacts categories, LCA system models, and methods for life cycle inventory.
Civil Engineering^Numerical Modeling of Geomaterials Numerical Modeling of Geomaterials 3 Modeling of the response of geomaterials to changes in imposed stresses or strains under both static and dynamic conditions.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Geomaterial Characterization Advanced Geomaterial Characterization 3 Advanced mechanics of geomaterials; compressibility, concept of stress and strain; shear strength, stress/strain and time-dependent behavior; dynamic properties.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Geotechnical Engineering Advanced Topics in Geotechnical Engineering V 2-4
Civil Engineering^Dynamics of Structures Dynamics of Structures 3 Equations of motion, free vibration, damping mechanisms, harmonic, impulse, and seismic loading; shock and seismic response spectra, time and frequency domain analysis, modal analysis, structural dynamics in building codes. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Mechanics of Materials Advanced Mechanics of Materials 3 Elastic stress-strain relations, shear center, unsymmetrical bending, curved beams, elastic stability, elastically supported beams, energy methods, thin plates, shells. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Measurements Environmental Measurements 3 Theory and laboratory measurement techniques used in analyzing environmental quality parameters. Credit not granted for both CE 415 and CE 515. Required preparation must include CE 341. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Mechanics of Sediment Transport Mechanics of Sediment Transport 3 Cohesive and non-cohesive sediments; initiation of sediment motion; sediment transport; suspended and bed load entrainment; models of sediment transport for alluvial and gravel bed streams, sediment-flow interaction; river morphology and ecological restoration. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Hazardous Waste Engineering Hazardous Waste Engineering V 3-4 Hazardous waste properties, chemodynamics, and health effects; introduction to risk assessment and hazardous waste remediation. Credit not granted for both CE 418 and CE 518. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Hazardous Waste Treatment Hazardous Waste Treatment 3 Principles of operation and application of processes in design of technologies used in hazardous waste treatment and remediation. Credit not granted for both CE 419 and CE 519. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering 3 Faulting and seismicity; site response analysis; probabilistic seismic hazard assessment; influence of soil on ground shaking; response spectra; soil liquefaction; seismic earth pressures; seismic slope stability; earthquake resistant design. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Soil and Site Improvement Soil and Site Improvement 3 Compaction theory and methods; deep densification of soils; advanced consolidation theory, preloading, vertical drains, chemical stabilization, grouting; design with geosynthetics. Credit not granted for both CE 425 and CE 525. Required preparation must include CE 317. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Engineering Properties of Soils Engineering Properties of Soils 3 Physical properties, compressibility and consolidation, shear strength, compaction, saturated and unsaturated soils, laboratory and field methods of measurement, relations of physical and engineering properties, introduction to critical-state soil mechanics. Required preparation must include CE 317. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Design of Steel Structures Advanced Design of Steel Structures 3 Plate girder design; local and global buckling; plastic collapse analysis; shear and Moment-resisting connections; eccentrically-loaded connections. Required preparation must include CE 431. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Probability and Statistical Models in Engineering Probability and Statistical Models in Engineering 3 Engineering applications of probability and statistics; Monte Carlo simulation; model estimation and testing; probabilistic characterizations of loads and material properties; risk and reliability analyses. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Finite Elements Finite Elements 3 Theory of finite elements; applications to general engineering systems considered as assemblages of discrete elements. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Reinforced Concrete Design Advanced Reinforced Concrete Design 3 Composite design; slab design; limit state design; footings; retaining walls; deep beams; brackets and corbels; torsion; seismic design; shear walls. Required preparation must include CE 433. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Prestressed Concrete and Reinforced Masonry Design Prestressed Concrete and Reinforced Masonry Design 3 Behavior, analysis, and design of pretensioned and post-tensioned prestressed concrete structures; behavior and design of reinforced masonry structures. Credit not granted for both CE 434 and CE 534. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Finite Elements Advanced Finite Elements 3 Plate and shell analysis; nonlinear solution methods for finite strain/rotation and nonlinear materials.
Civil Engineering^Nondestructive Testing of Structural Materials Nondestructive Testing of Structural Materials 3 Principles of nondestructive testing applied to wood-based materials, steel, concrete, and masonry. .
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Structural Engineering Advanced Topics in Structural Engineering 3
Civil Engineering^Earthquake Engineering Earthquake Engineering 3 Seismology, size of earthquakes, seismic ground motion, seismic risk, behavior of structures subjected to earthquake loading seismic response spectra, seismic design codes, lateral force-resisting systems, detailing for inelastic seismic response.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Design of Timber Structures Advanced Design of Timber Structures 3 Engineering properties of wood materials; theory and design of wood composites, connections and load-sharing systems; performance criteria and durability. Required preparation must include CE 436. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Instrumental Analysis of Environmental Contaminants Instrumental Analysis of Environmental Contaminants 3 Theory and methods of analysis of water and water suspensions for contaminants using electrometric, spectrophotometric, and chromatographic techniques.
Civil Engineering^Physicochemical Water and Wastewater Treatment Physicochemical Water and Wastewater Treatment 3 Principles of physical and chemical operations used in water and wastewater treatment, including chemical reactor theory, sedimentation, filtration, precipitation, mass transfer, coagulation/flocculation, disinfection, adsorption and ion exchange.
Civil Engineering^Biochemical Wastewater Treatment Biochemical Wastewater Treatment 3 Principles of biochemical operations used in wastewater treatment including biochemical energetics, kinetics, activated sludge and fixed film reactors, nutrient removal, and sludge handling and treatment. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Environmental Engineering Practice Advanced Topics in Environmental Engineering Practice V 1-4
Civil Engineering^Hydroclimatology Hydroclimatology 3 Water and energy budgets as they relate to climate, dynamics; and remote sensing, statistical, and modeling techniques for hydroclimatology.
Civil Engineering^Open Channel Flow Open Channel Flow 3 Steady, non-uniform flow; controls and transitions in fixed-bed channels. Credit not granted for both CE 451 and CE 551. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Topics in Hydraulic Engineering Advanced Topics in Hydraulic Engineering V 1-3
Civil Engineering^Natural Treatment Systems Natural Treatment Systems 3 Principles and design procedures of natural systems for wastewater treatment for agricultural and non-agricultural applications. .
Civil Engineering^Advanced Hydrology Advanced Hydrology 3 Components of the hydrologic cycle; conceptual models; watershed characteristics; probability/statistics in data analysis; hydrographs; computer models; and design applications. Credit not granted for both CE 460 and CE 560. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Civil Engineering^Properties of Highway Pavement Materials Properties of Highway Pavement Materials 3 Physical and mechanical properties of asphalt and Portland cement concrete materials; design of asphalt concrete mixes; introduction to viscoelastic theory; characterization methods, emphasizing fatigue, rutting, and thermal cracking; modification and upgrading techniques. Three 1-hr lect a wk and variable number of lab hrs for demonstration. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Advanced Pavement Design and Analysis Advanced Pavement Design and Analysis 3 Design of new and rehabilitated asphalt and Portland Cement concrete pavements; mechanistic-empirical design procedures, performance models; deflection-based structural analysis, overlay design, environmental effect; long-term pavement performance , and introduction to research topics in pavement engineering. Required preparation must include CE 473. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Graduate Seminar Graduate Seminar 1
Civil Engineering^Aquatic Chemistry Aquatic Chemistry 3 Chemical principles as applied to natural environmental system, water supply and pollution and control engineering. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Civil Engineering^Environmental Microbiology Environmental Microbiology 3 Provides a fundamental understanding of microbiology to engineering and environmental science students; cell structure and metabolism; microbial ecology and diversity.
Civil Engineering^Aquatic System Restoration Aquatic System Restoration 3 Study of natural, damaged and constructed ecosystems with emphasis on water quality protection and restoration of lakes, rivers, streams and wetlands. . Required preparation must include CHEM 345; MBIOS 101. Required preparation must include CHEM 345; MBIOS 101.
Civil Engineering^Bioremediation of Hazardous Waste Bioremediation of Hazardous Waste 3 Applications of bioremediations to in situ subsurface treatment of hazardous waste; subsurface microbial degradation as related to microbial ecology.
Civil Engineering^Atmospheric Turbulence and Air Pollution Modeling Atmospheric Turbulence and Air Pollution Modeling 3 Physical aspects of atmospheric turbulence, theoretical developments in atmospheric diffusion, and applied computer modeling with regulatory and research models.
Civil Engineering^Atmospheric Chemical and Physical Processes Atmospheric Chemical and Physical Processes 3 Processes of removal of pollutants from the atmosphere; radical chain reactions, particle formation, model calculations.
Civil Engineering^Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer of the Atmosphere Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer of the Atmosphere 3 Concepts of radiative transfer and molecular spectra in the troposphere and stratosphere with applications to trace gas measurements.
Civil Engineering^Aerosol Dynamics and Chemistry Aerosol Dynamics and Chemistry 3 Chemical and physical properties of atmospheric aerosols; sources, sinks, and transformation processes.
Civil Engineering^Polymer Materials and Engineering Polymer Materials and Engineering 3 Preparation and structure-property relationship of polymer materials with emphasis on fracture mechanics and toughening. . Required preparation must include MSE 402.
Civil Engineering^Natural Fibers Natural Fibers 3 Structural aspects and properties of natural fibers including anatomy, ultrastructure, and chemistry. .
Civil Engineering^Polymer and Composite Processing Polymer and Composite Processing 3 Polymer and composite processing from fundamental principles to practical applications. .
Civil Engineering^Engineered Wood Composites Engineered Wood Composites 3 Theory and practice of wood composite materials, manufacture and development. .
Civil Engineering^Polymers and Surfaces for Adhesion Polymers and Surfaces for Adhesion 3 Physical chemistry of polymers and surfaces needed to understand interface morphology, adhesion mechanisms and bond performance. . Required preparation must include MSE 402 or 404.
Civil Engineering^Natural Fiber Polymer Composites Natural Fiber Polymer Composites 3 Fundamentals, development and application of composite materials produced from polymers reinforced with natural fibers and wood as major components. .
Civil Engineering^Master's Research, Thesis and/or Examination Master's Research, Thesis and/or Examination V 1-18
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Finance Entrepreneurial Finance 3 Raising capital for new enterprises; venture capital, IPOs, debt financing, leasing and valuing start-up ventures.
Entrepreneurship^New Venture Planning New Venture Planning 3 Skills, behaviors, and knowledge necessary for creating and growing new ventures; evaluating opportunities, developing growth strategies, obtaining venture financing, intellectual property, and building a management team.
Entrepreneurship^Launching New Ventures Launching New Ventures 3 Focus on turning an idea into a serious business venture; research new business opportunities and become skilled in developing business tools and processes to carry out venture-launch strategies; compete in the WSU Business Plan Competition.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurial Management Entrepreneurial Management 3 Philosophy and nature of entrepreneurship for all business organizations; analytical, financial and interpersonal entrepreneurial skills.
Entrepreneurship^Small Business Strategy and Planning Small Business Strategy and Planning 3 Application of management theory and principles to small firms; applied consulting experience with operating businesses.
Entrepreneurship^Entrepreneurship Internship Entrepreneurship Internship V 2-15
Entrepreneurship^Technology Entrepreneurship Technology Entrepreneurship 3 Basic business concepts and processes applied to technology commercialization and venture creation.
Entrepreneurship^Management of Innovation Management of Innovation 3 Technological transitions and technology strategy; knowledge and creativity in organizations; managing innovation processes, technical employees, and cross-functional cooperation. .
Accounting^Introduction to Financial Accounting Introduction to Financial Accounting 3 Introduction to corporate financial reporting via the preparation and interpretation of financial statements.
Accounting^Introduction to Managerial Accounting Introduction to Managerial Accounting 3 Introduction to managerial accounting; generation and use of accounting data for planning and controlling business operations.
Accounting^Intermediate Accounting I Intermediate Accounting I 3 Theory underlying the determination of income; analysis of financial statements.
Accounting^Intermediate Accounting II Intermediate Accounting II 3  Continuation of ACCTG 330.
Accounting^Introduction to Taxation Introduction to Taxation 3 Fundamentals of tax information use in making sound business and financial decisions.
Accounting^Cost Accounting Cost Accounting 3  Management uses of cost information; cost systems and system design; cost analysis.
Accounting^Accounting and Culture Accounting and Culture 3 Cultural differences and how they affect accounting practices and standards in a variety of countries. Not an accounting technical course.
Accounting^Advanced Accounting Advanced Accounting 3  Partnership equities and extended forms of corporate ownerships and entities.
Accounting^Accounting Systems and Auditing Accounting Systems and Auditing 3 Accounting systems design; internal control and computerization.
Accounting^Individual Income Taxes Individual Income Taxes 3 The study of individual income taxes from both compliance and planning perspectives. Credit not granted to those taking ACCTG 335 prior to Fall 1999.
Accounting^Advanced Cost Accounting and Management Advanced Cost Accounting and Management 3 Cost/managerial accounting as it is used for decision making and strategic planning; emphasis on budgeting, product cost, and performance measurement.
Accounting^Auditing Auditing 3 Nature of auditing, generally accepted auditing standards, and audit procedures as related to auditing of financial statements by independent accountants.
Accounting^Business Processes and Controls Business Processes and Controls 3 Introduction to business processes and internal controls, including risk assessment and internal audit.
Accounting^Accounting Internship Accounting Internship V 2-15
Accounting^Accounting Theory Accounting Theory 3 Recent developments with respect to the determination of income and the valuation of assets.
Accounting^Contemporary Accounting Cases and Problems Contemporary Accounting Cases and Problems 3 Accounting theory applied to external financial reporting practices.
Accounting^Accounting, Performance Measurement and Controls Accounting, Performance Measurement and Controls 3 Managerial evaluation of budgeting, cost accounting, and financial analysis techniques; their utilization in control of operations.
Accounting^Advanced Taxation Advanced Taxation 3 Federal income tax impact on corporations, S corporations, partnerships, estates, trusts and their beneficial owners.
Accounting^Seminar in Cost/Managerial Accounting Seminar in Cost/Managerial Accounting 3 Cost concepts, cost and managerial accounting systems; current issues and research in cost and managerial accounting.
Accounting^Seminar in Public Accounting and Auditing Seminar in Public Accounting and Auditing 3 Public accounting and auditing to present; current issues including statistical sampling and computers.
Accounting^Corporate Taxation Corporate Taxation 3 Application of federal tax provisions and rules pertaining to corporations and shareholders; tax planning and consequences of corporate decisions.
Accounting^Flow Through Entities Flow Through Entities 3 Tax law and preparation requirements for entities in which tax elements passes thorough to the owner's individual income tax return.
Accounting^Gifts, Estates and Trusts Gifts, Estates and Trusts 3 Estate and gift tax law.
Accounting^Special Topics in Accounting Special Topics in Accounting 3
Accounting^Advanced Accounting Systems and Auditing Advanced Accounting Systems and Auditing 3 Advanced topics in accounting systems, auditing and controls.
Accounting^International Taxation International Taxation 3 Tax issues for international transactions of businesses and individuals.
Accounting^Accounting for Income Taxes Accounting for Income Taxes 3 Comprehensive coverage of accounting income taxes.
Accounting^Introduction to Financial and Managerial Accounting Introduction to Financial and Managerial Accounting V 2-3 Fundamentals of financial and managerial accounting; primarily for graduate students who wish to meet the MBA core requirements in accounting.
Management^Introduction to Business Introduction to Business 3 Enrollment not allowed if credit for MGMT 301 or MKTG 360 already earned. Introduction to the practice of business with explanations of business environments, strategy, organization, functional areas, terminology, processes, tasks and ethics. Credit not allowed for MGMT 101 if credit already earned in MGMT 301 and/or Mktg 360.
Management^Principles of Management and Organization Principles of Management and Organization 3 Principles of management and administration aimed at improving effectiveness of all types of organizations. Credit not allowed for MGMT 101 if credit already earned in MGMT 301.
Management^Women in Management and Leadership Women in Management and Leadership 3 Analysis of women's historical and contemporary role in American management. .
Management^Leading People and Organizations Leading People and Organizations 3  Leadership, motivation, team building, group dynamics, interpersonal and group conflict, and job design.
Management^Personnel and Human Resources Management Personnel and Human Resources Management 3  Policy and practice in human resource utilization, selecting, training, motivating, evaluating, and compensating employees; labor relations; EEO legislation.
Management^Recruiting and Hiring Human Capital Recruiting and Hiring Human Capital 3  Selection issues; methods of forecasting, planning, recruitment, selection; analysis of psychometric properties of tests; techniques for assessing reliability and validity.
Management^Evaluating and Rewarding Employees Evaluating and Rewarding Employees 3  Theoretical, research, and applied issues related to the compensation of employees.
Management^Management of Innovation and Change Management of Innovation and Change 3  Analysis of innovation and change theories in organizations; managing innovation in networks and teams; technology, structure, culture, and environment.
Management^Negotiation Skills Negotiation Skills 3  Bargaining skills across a broad range of business settings; experiential work.
Management^Business Ethics and Corporate Responsibility Business Ethics and Corporate Responsibility 3  The nature and sources of individual and corporate ethical responsibilities in the business context and ways of addressing conflicting responsibilities.
Management^Strategic Management Strategic Management 3  Capstone course integrating diverse functional knowledge for strategy formulation, implementation and competitive advantage from the perspective of top management.
Management^Seminar in Entrepreneurship Seminar in Entrepreneurship 3 D. in Business Administration. Advanced, doctoral-level topics in entrepreneurship.
Management^Advanced Negotiation Skills Advanced Negotiation Skills 3 D. programs. Bargaining skills in multi-stakeholder settings; experiential work.
Management^Seminar in Organizational Theory Seminar in Organizational Theory 3 D. in Business Administration. Advanced, doctoral-level topics in organizational theory.
Management^Seminar in Strategic Management Seminar in Strategic Management 3 D. in Business Administration. Advanced, doctoral-level topics in Strategic Management.
Management^Seminar in International Management Seminar in International Management 3 D. in Business Administration. Advanced, doctoral-level topics in International Management.
Management^Seminar in Management (Organizational Behavior) Seminar in Management (Organizational Behavior) 3 Advanced doctoral-level topics in organizational behavior.
Finance^Personal Finance Personal Finance 3 Consumer credit, financial institutions, investments, mutual funds, insurance, social security, home ownership, taxes, estate planning. Credit not applicable to business major requirements.
Finance^Introduction to Financial Management Introduction to Financial Management 3 Time value of money, financial securities and markets, financial decision making, valuation techniques, and cost of capital.
Finance^Real Estate Real Estate 3 Relationships between location and value; patterns of urban land use; legal, financial, and organizational framework of the real estate business.
Finance^Washington Real Estate Regulations Washington Real Estate Regulations 1 Washington real estate regulations found in the Revised Code of Washington and the Washington Administrative Code .
Finance^Risk and Insurance Risk and Insurance 3  Concepts in risk management and insurance; personal risks and treatment methods; legal principles in risk and insurance; overview of the insurance industry, company operations, and insurance regulation.
Finance^Financial Institutions and Intermediation Financial Institutions and Intermediation 3  Characteristics of financial markets and institutions; analysis of fixed-income securities; and introduction to financial risk management.
Finance^Financial Institutions Management Financial Institutions Management 3  Problems facing financial institution managers and solution techniques; credit risk analysis and management; financial institutions structure and regulation.
Finance^Intermediate Financial Management Intermediate Financial Management 3  Application of finance theory and principles to corporate decisions such as capital budgeting, cost of capital, financing decisions, and valuation.
Finance^Investment Analysis Investment Analysis 3  Investment objectives, modern portfolio theory, valuation, equilibrium, market efficiency and asset classes.
Finance^Portfolio Theory and Financial Engineering Portfolio Theory and Financial Engineering 3 Pricing of forwards, futures, options, and swaps, financial derivatives markets, and managing portfolio risk.
Finance^Financial Modeling Financial Modeling 3 Corporate finance, portfolio, option pricing, risk management and fixed income modeling.
Finance^Cougar Investment Fund I Cougar Investment Fund I 3  Students manage a portion of the university's endowment; including security analysis, valuation, equilibrium, market efficiency, and modern portfolio theory.
Finance^Cougar Investment Fund II Cougar Investment Fund II 3 Students manage a portion of the university's endowment. Topics include portfolio risk management, return attribution, private equity, and hedge funds.
Finance^Real Estate Valuation Real Estate Valuation 3 Principles and practices of real property valuation; factors affecting real property values and income; appraisal and location theory.
Finance^Real Estate Finance and Investments Real Estate Finance and Investments 3  Instruments and institutions of real estate and financing: decision-making tools, mortgage financing analysis, mortgage securities and real estate portfolios.
Finance^Life Insurance and Financial Planning Life Insurance and Financial Planning 3  Analysis of the personal risks of premature death, poor health, and retirement security; financial planning solutions to these risks, including life insurance, health insurance and annuities.
Finance^Property and Liability Insurance Property and Liability Insurance 3 Analysis and management of business property, liability and consequential loss exposures; issues in the property and liability insurance industry.
Finance^Risk Management Risk Management 3  Identification and analysis of loss exposures of business and non-profit organizations; application of risk treatment measures including loss control and risk financing alternatives.
Finance^International Finance International Finance 3  Financial management of multinational businesses; international financial market rates and capital flows. International economic institutions, sources of capital, and investments.
Finance^Finance Internship Finance Internship V 2-15
Finance^Macroeconomic Theory I Macroeconomic Theory I 3 Introduction to dynamics, growth and investment, overlapping generations models, Ramsey model, consumption and investment. . Required preparation must include intermediate macroeconomics and one year of calculus. Required preparation must include intermediate macroeconomics and one year of calculus.
Finance^Microeconomic Theory I Microeconomic Theory I 3 Microeconomic theory, multivariate optimization, consumer and producer theory, competitive partial equilibrium, introduction to imperfect competition. . Required preparation must include intermediate microeconomics and one year of calculus. Required preparation must include intermediate microeconomics and one year of calculus.
Finance^Macroeconomic Theory II Macroeconomic Theory II 3 Macroeconomic theory, short-run fluctuations and nominal rigidities, monetary economics and inflation, real business cycle models, unemployment international macroeconomics. .
Finance^Microeconomic Theory II Microeconomic Theory II 3 General equilibrium, welfare economics and social choice, market failure, game theory, economics of information. .
Finance^Production and Consumption Economics Production and Consumption Economics 3 Advanced duality topics, demand and supply system modeling, financial economics and risk. .
Finance^Statistics for Economists Statistics for Economists 3 Statistical theory underlying econometric techniques utilized in quantitative analysis of problems in economics and finance. . Required preparation must include college calculus and matrix algebra. Required preparation must include college calculus and matrix algebra.
Finance^Econometrics I Econometrics I 3 Single equation linear and nonlinear models; estimation, inference, finite and asymptotic properties, effects and mitigation of violations of classical assumptions. .
Finance^Econometrics II Econometrics II 3 Econometric methods for systems estimation; simultaneous equations, discrete and limited dependent variable, panel data, and time series data. .
Finance^Interest Rates and Financial Markets Interest Rates and Financial Markets 3 Real and nominal interest rates; bond pricing; term and risk structure of interest rates; investment and commercial banking; financial futures.
Finance^Advanced Financial Management Advanced Financial Management 3 Theory of financial management; quantitative analysis of financial problems of the firm; empirical studies on financing modern corporations.
Finance^Financial Management Financial Management 3 Advanced topics in corporate finance, including capital budgeting, cost of capital, capital structure, pay-out policy, and enterprise valuation.
Finance^Investment Analysis Investment Analysis 3 A decision-making approach to the problems of asset management for personal and business portfolio.
Finance^Portfolio Theory and Financial Engineering Portfolio Theory and Financial Engineering 3 The theory of portfolio management and the use of derivative securities in portfolio risk management.
Finance^International Finance International Finance 3 Principles of international finance; financial management of multinational corporations; international investments.
Finance^Applications in Microeconomic Topics Applications in Microeconomic Topics 3 Applied topics in healthcare, sports, transportation and other markets. .
Finance^Theory of Industrial Organization Theory of Industrial Organization 3 Theory of market structure and firm behavior, including price and non-price competition, information and strategic behavior, and technological change. .
Finance^Advanced Topics in Resource and Production Economics Advanced Topics in Resource and Production Economics V 1-6
Finance^Advanced Topics in Financial Economics Advanced Topics in Financial Economics V 1-6
Biology^Biology of Humans Biology of Humans 3 The biology of good health and longevity; evaluation of lifestyle choices; consideration of each body system and the potential for disease and disorder. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^General Biology General Biology 4 Enrollment not allowed if credit for BIOLOGY 105 already earned. Understanding current and future advances in biology as 'citizen scientists'. Lecture and laboratory; not for students majoring in the life sciences. Credit not allowed for students who have already completed BIOLOGY 105. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^General Biology Laboratory General Biology Laboratory 1 Enrollment not allowed if credit for BIOLOGY 102 already earned. Understanding biology as a science and its effect on issues within society. Laboratory only. Credit not allowed for students who have already completed BIOLOGY 102. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Introductory Biology: Organismal Biology Introductory Biology: Organismal Biology 4 One semester of a two semester sequence for science majors and pre-professional students. Biology of organisms; plants, animals, ecology and evolution.
Biology^Introductory Biology: Cell Biology and Genetics Introductory Biology: Cell Biology and Genetics 4 First or second semester of a one-year sequence for science majors and pre-professional students. Cell biology and genetics of prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
Biology^Biological Perspectives on Environmental Issues Biological Perspectives on Environmental Issues 3 Current case studies of human interaction with the environment exploring concepts in ecology, biodiversity, global chemical cycles, and climate change. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Laboratory Experiments in Biology and Genetics Laboratory Experiments in Biology and Genetics 1 Scientific method and its application to a diverse range of biology and genetics topics and research questions. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Introductory Botany Introductory Botany 4 Introduction to plant science, highlighting certain aspects of plant biology and current research and how these relate to us all in the modern world. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Genetics and Society Genetics and Society 3 Genetic topics in media and daily life including human health, agriculture, ecology and forensics for the educated non-biologist. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Biology of the Oceans Biology of the Oceans 3 Survey of the ocean biosphere including physical and chemical aspects and the biology of marine organisms in specific marine environments. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Animal Natural History Animal Natural History 3 Identification, life history, habitat relations, ecology, behavior, and conservation of animals commonly found in the Pacific Northwest. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Introduction to Nutritional Science Introduction to Nutritional Science 3 Information related to dietary sources of nutrients, their functions in the body, physiologic and environmental factors that govern nutrient requirements, and guidelines for optimal dietary patterns. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Evolution Evolution 3 Basic principles and implications of Darwinian evolution. Credit not granted towards elective requirements for majors in the School of Biological Sciences.
Biology^Contemporary Biology Contemporary Biology 1 Biological information that provides a framework for understanding life processes; impact of biological information on human affairs.
Biology^Your Future in Life Sciences Your Future in Life Sciences 2 Exploration of career options in biological sciences with faculty and outside speakers; guide to preparing resume and career plans. .
Biology^Medical Terminology Medical Terminology 2 Terms and word constructions for health care occupations; format and function of medical records.
Biology^Introductory Human Physiology Introductory Human Physiology 4 Basic physiological processes in humans from the cellular to the organismal level. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 251 and 353.
Biology^Honors Biology for Non-Science Majors Honors Biology for Non-Science Majors 4 Understanding the natural world from a biological perspective for non-science majors.
Biology^General Genetics General Genetics 4 Principles of modern and classical genetics. .
Biology^Marine Biology Marine Biology 3 Introduction to the marine environment including oceanic, near-shore and estuarine communities of organisms and their roles and interactions.
Biology^Gross and Microanatomy Gross and Microanatomy 4 5 or better. Gross and microscopic anatomy of the human body. Recommended for pre-health care professionals only.
Biology^Principles of Animal Development Principles of Animal Development 4 Experimental analyses of development and descriptive and comparative examination of embryology; emphasis on the chordates.
Biology^Invertebrate Biology Invertebrate Biology 4 Phylogenetic relationships, development, and functional ecology of the invertebrate animals.
Biology^Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy 4 Evolution of vertebrates and their organ systems; correlation of structural modification with function. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Principles of Conservation Principles of Conservation 3 Conservation of major natural resources through a biological approach; philosophical, economic, and political aspects of important conservation issues.
Biology^Systematic Botany Systematic Botany 4 Identification and classification of vascular plants with emphasis on the local flora.
Biology^Human Nutrition and Health Human Nutrition and Health 3 Credit not granted for students who have already completed BIOLOGY 233 with a grade of C or above. Foundations in nutritional science and its relationship to human health through the application of fundamental principles of biology.
Biology^Genome Biology Genome Biology 3 Comparative analysis of genomes from bacteria to humans including methods for sequencing, genotyping, annotation of genomes, population genetics and evolution.
Biology^Introduction to Mathematical Biology Introduction to Mathematical Biology 3 Mathematical biology and development of mathematical modeling for solutions to problems in the life sciences. .
Biology^Comparative Physiology Comparative Physiology 4 Analysis of systems and integrative physiology with an emphasis on evolutionary adaptation among mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates.
Biology^Cell Physiology Cell Physiology 3 Function and control at the cell-tissue level.
Biology^Advanced Human Physiology Advanced Human Physiology 4 Function and control at the organ-organismic level with emphasis on mammals, including humans; emphasis on human health science applications. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 251 and 353.
Biology^Human Anatomy for Health Occupations Human Anatomy for Health Occupations 4 History and anatomy of humans with non-cadaver-based laboratory utilizing preserved and histological specimens, models and software.
Biology^General Ecology General Ecology 4 Relationship of organisms with physical and biotic components of their environment at the population, community, and ecosystem level.
Biology^Stream Monitoring Stream Monitoring 1 Principles and methods of water quality monitoring, including habitat assessment, water chemistry, and biological assessment. Field work and independent research required.
Biology^Professional Communications in Biology Professional Communications in Biology 2 Literature investigation, oral presentation and written reports of selected topics in biology.
Biology^Medicine as a Career Medicine as a Career 1 Current issues in medicine; ethical, financial, and personal aspects of medical practice.
Biology^Plants and People Plants and People 3 Relationships between plants and people, especially cultural and economic applications of plants.
Biology^Evolutionary Biology Evolutionary Biology 3 The survey of evidence for evolution and operation of evolutionary processes that influence adaptation, diversification and speciation in organisms.
Biology^Principles of Organic Evolution Principles of Organic Evolution 3 The evolutionary processes that influence adaptation, population differentiation, and speciation in organisms.
Biology^Biology of Women Biology of Women 3 Biological basis of sex and its relationship to body function, women and health care, and the impact of social and cultural perspectives on the experience of being female. .
Biology^Contemporary Genetics Contemporary Genetics 3 Consideration of the state-of-the-art genetic technologies and their impact on society, environment and the economy.
Biology^Plant Anatomy Plant Anatomy 4 Developmental anatomy and morphology of vascular plants; economic forms. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 409 and BIOLOGY 509. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Marine Ecology Marine Ecology 3 The ecology and conservation of marine organisms, communities, and ecosystems.
Biology^Biology of Fishes Biology of Fishes 3 Evolution, identification, life history, and characteristics of important fish species.
Biology^Parasitology Parasitology 4 Types of associations, life cycles, control, prevention, and modifications of parasites; examination of parasitic protozoa and helminths.
Biology^Plant Physiology Plant Physiology 3 Water relations, mineral nutrition, photosynthesis, respiration, and growth of plants. Recommended: Organic chemistry.
Biology^Plant Physiology Laboratory Plant Physiology Laboratory 1 Laboratory for Biol 420.
Biology^Ornithology Ornithology 4 Ecology, systematics, and evolution of birds. Field trips required include two Saturdays.
Biology^Mammalogy Mammalogy 4 Ecology, systematics, and evolution of mammals.
Biology^Methods of Teaching Science Methods of Teaching Science 3 Methods, philosophy, and structure of science; application in teaching middle and secondary school science courses. .
Biology^Biology of Amphibians and Reptiles Biology of Amphibians and Reptiles 4 Characteristics, evolution, and systematics; patterns of distribution; adaptive strategies; interactions between humans and amphibians and reptiles.
Biology^Animal Behavior Animal Behavior 3 Biological study of animal behavior as viewed from ethological, genetic, developmental, ecological, and evolutionary perspectives.
Biology^Neuroethology Neuroethology 3 Introduction to neural mechanisms underlying natural animal behaviors from the cellular level to the organismal level.
Biology^Community Ecology Community Ecology 3 Assembly, essential properties, levels of interactions, succession, and stability of natural communities; emphasizes an experimental approach to community investigation. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 462 and BIOLOGY 562.
Biology^Field Stream Ecology Field Stream Ecology 2 Ecological roles of immature insects in different size streams; pattern changes along the stream continuum; other ecological characteristics.
Biology^Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change 3 Historic and current factors controlling the function of ecosystems and their responses to natural and human caused global change. . Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 469 and 569, or ENVR SCI 469 and 569. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Diversity of Plants Diversity of Plants 3 Morphological, life history, and ecological diversity of major plant clades; emphasis on principles of homology, character transformation, and macroevolution. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Systems Biology of Reproduction Systems Biology of Reproduction 3 Current literature based course on systems biology with a molecular/epigenetic to physiological level understanding of cell, development, disease, and evolutionary biology. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 475 and 575. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Epigenetics and Systems Biology Epigenetics and Systems Biology 3 Current literature based course on epigenetics and systems biology with topics in environmental epigenetics, disease etiology, and role epigenetics in evolutionary biology. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 476 and 576. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Writing in Biology Writing in Biology 2 Discussion and practice in relating thinking and writing; popular and professional communication in biology.
Biology^Organisms and Global Change Organisms and Global Change 3 Interaction between organisms and global change across scales of biology.
Biology^Marine Invertebrate Communities Marine Invertebrate Communities 2 Survey of marine invertebrates and their habitats. One-week field/lab course at a marine station.
Biology^Professional Seminar in Physical Therapy Professional Seminar in Physical Therapy 2 Consideration of treatment modalities and health issues in physical therapy and related disciplines. A,
Biology^Clinical Experience Clinical Experience V 1-4
Biology^Topics in Biology Topics in Biology V 1-3
Biology^Seminar in Mathematical Biology Seminar in Mathematical Biology 1
Biology^Internship in Biology, Botany, and Zoology Internship in Biology, Botany, and Zoology V 1-4
Biology^Special Problems and Reports Special Problems and Reports V 1-4 Independent project with written project proposal, progress report, and final report required.
Biology^Instructional Practicum Instructional Practicum V 1-4
Biology^Proposal Defense Seminar Proposal Defense Seminar 2 Research proposal defense as part of the preliminary examination for candidacy in the Ph.D. program.
Biology^Experimental Methods in Plant Physiology Experimental Methods in Plant Physiology 3 Advanced techniques and instrumental methods applicable to research in plant physiology.
Biology^Plant Anatomy Plant Anatomy 4 Developmental anatomy and morphology of vascular plants; economic forms. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 409 and BIOLOGY 509. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Molecular Mechanisms of Plant Development Molecular Mechanisms of Plant Development 3 Physiology of growth; metabolism during development and reproduction.
Biology^Plant Metabolism Plant Metabolism 3 Metabolic processes unique to plants, including the primary incorporation of nitrogen, sulfur, carbon dioxide and phosphate into bio-molecules.
Biology^Fish Genetics Fish Genetics 2 Chromosomal, biochemical, quantitative, and ecological aspects of fish genetics with emphasis on applications to aquaculture and fish management. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Stress Physiology of Plants Stress Physiology of Plants 3 Temperature, light, salinity, water effects on physiological processes; mechanistic understanding of stress.
Biology^Introduction to Population Genetics Introduction to Population Genetics 3 Survey of basic population and quantitative genetics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Conservation Genetics Conservation Genetics 2 Genetic studies and approaches relevant to efforts to conserve threatened and endangered populations of organisms.
Biology^Quantitative Genetics Quantitative Genetics 3 Fundamentals of quantitative genetics; evolutionary quantitative genetics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Principles of Systematic Biology Principles of Systematic Biology 3 Systematic theory; history and current views; approaches to phylogenetic analysis and classification.
Biology^Modern Methods in Phylogenetics Modern Methods in Phylogenetics 4 Selecting, gathering, and analyzing morphological, cytological, molecular data for phylogenetic and evolutionary studies.
Biology^Modern Methods in Population Genomics Modern Methods in Population Genomics 3 Problems and prospects of designing a study with genomic data: from raw data to demography and selection inferences.
Biology^Plant Cell Biology Plant Cell Biology 3 Structure and function of plant cells including membrane biology, protein targeting and molecular signaling with emphasis on current research.
Biology^Stable Isotope Theory and Methods Stable Isotope Theory and Methods 3 Theory and practice of measuring stable isotope ratios of biologically important elements; training in the use of isotope mass spectrometers. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Nitrogen Cycling in the Earth's Systems Nitrogen Cycling in the Earth's Systems 3 Nitrogen dynamics in terrestrial, aquatic, and atmospheric systems; nitrogen transformations in natural and managed systems and responses to human activities. .
Biology^Evolutionary Ecology of Populations Evolutionary Ecology of Populations 3 Evolutionary dynamics of natural populations and the co-evolution of species. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Biochemical Adaptation Biochemical Adaptation 3 Relationships between enzyme/macromolecule adaptation and animal performance.
Biology^Hormones, Brain and Behavior Hormones, Brain and Behavior 3 Classical behavioral endocrinology from molecular to whole organisms, integrating evolutionary ecology, neuroethology and behavioral neuroendocrinology.
Biology^Plant Ecophysiology Plant Ecophysiology 3 Relationships of biotic and abiotic environment to plant distribution and evolution through study of physiological processes.
Biology^Environmental Physiology Environmental Physiology 3 Individual and evolutionary adaptations to changing environments with emphasis on recent literature.
Biology^Community Ecology Community Ecology 3 Assembly, essential properties, levels of interactions, succession, and stability of natural communities; emphasizes an experimental approach to community investigation. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 462 and BIOLOGY 562.
Biology^Field Ecology Field Ecology 2 Field implementation of descriptive and experimental techniques to quantify the structure, composition, and interactions within natural communities. Field trips required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Molecular Ecology and Phylogeography Molecular Ecology and Phylogeography 3 Use of genetic markers for the study of ecological phenomena, including kinship, population structure, and phylogeography. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Ecology and Evolution of Disease Ecology and Evolution of Disease 3 Disease ecology and evolution with a focus on current literature.
Biology^Mathematical Genetics Mathematical Genetics 3 Mathematical approaches to population genetics and genome analysis; theories and statistical analyses of genetic parameters. . Required preparation must include multivariate calculus, genetics, and statistics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Ecological Restoration Ecological Restoration 3 Introduction to major issues in restoration ecology; major ecological dimensions of restoration.
Biology^Conservation Ecology Conservation Ecology 3 Prereq Graduate standing. Diagnosis of endangered species, population viability analysis, invasive species ecology, landscape ecology and ecosystem management.
Biology^Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change 3 Historic and current factors controlling the function of ecosystems and their responses to natural and human caused global change. . Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 469 and 569, or ENVR SCI 469 and 569. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Biology^Diversity of Plants Diversity of Plants 3 Morphological, life history, and ecological diversity of major plant clades; emphasis on principles of homology, character transformation, and macroevolution.
Biology^Quantitative Methods and Statistics in Ecology Quantitative Methods and Statistics in Ecology 4 Philosophy and methods of formulating hypotheses as mathematical models and confronting them with data.
Biology^Ancient DNA Ancient DNA 3 The prospects and problems associated with the study of ancient DNA are explored through reading and discussing primary literature.
Biology^Systems Biology of Reproduction Systems Biology of Reproduction 3 Current literature based course on systems biology with a molecular/epigenetic to physiological level understanding of cell, development, disease, and evolutionary biology. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 475 and 575. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Epigenetics and Systems Biology Epigenetics and Systems Biology 3 Current literature based course on epigenetics and systems biology with topics in environmental epigenetics, disease etiology, and role epigenetics in evolutionary biology. Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 476 and 576. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Biology^Mathematical Modeling in the Biological and Health Sciences Mathematical Modeling in the Biological and Health Sciences 3 Techniques, theory, and current literature in mathematical modeling in the biological and health sciences, including computational simulation. .
Biology^Comparative Biology of Social Traditions Comparative Biology of Social Traditions 3 Phylogenetic and modeling perspectives used to examine the evolution of social learning and cultural transmission in humans and other animals. .
Biology^Professional Communication in Biology - Grant Writing Professional Communication in Biology - Grant Writing 2 Mechanics and style of publishing biological research and findings; adaptation of writing to various venues and audiences with emphasis on grant writing.
Biology^Professional Development and Training for College and University Teaching Professional Development and Training for College and University Teaching 2 Preparation for roles as teaching assistants and as instructors of undergraduate classroom education.
Biology^Advanced Topics in Biology Advanced Topics in Biology V 1-3
Biology^Seminar in Molecular Plant Sciences Seminar in Molecular Plant Sciences 1
Biology^Seminar I Seminar I 1
Biology^Teaching Practicum Teaching Practicum V 1-4
Biology^IPEM Seminar IPEM Seminar 1
Biology^Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination V 1-18
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal Health Agricultural Animal Health 3 Introduction to basic concepts of infectious, noninfectious, and parasitic diseases of animals of agricultural and public health importance.
Veterinary^Medical and Surgical Problems in the Horse Medical and Surgical Problems in the Horse 3 Basic health care of horses with respect to good health care and recognizing and responding to disease and injury situations.
Veterinary^Nihon University Seminar Nihon University Seminar 2 Lectures and laboratory sessions in small animal, exotic animal, and equine veterinary medicine and surgery.
Veterinary^Oncology Journal Seminar Oncology Journal Seminar 1
Veterinary^Special Topics in Equine Surgery Special Topics in Equine Surgery 1
Veterinary^Cardiology Special Topics Cardiology Special Topics 1
Veterinary^Introduction to Veterinary Clinical Research Introduction to Veterinary Clinical Research 2 Designing, executing, analyzing and reporting clinical research fundamental to practicing evidence-based medicine.
Veterinary^Applied Veterinary Physiology I Applied Veterinary Physiology I 2 Review of physiology as it relates to clinical veterinary medicine and specific diseases of animals through analysis of recent medical literature.
Veterinary^Applied Veterinary Physiology II Applied Veterinary Physiology II 2 Continuation of VET CLIN 577.
Veterinary^Oncology Rounds Seminar Oncology Rounds Seminar 1
Veterinary^Advanced Clinical Pathology Advanced Clinical Pathology 1
Veterinary^Seminar in Clinical Medicine Seminar in Clinical Medicine 1
Veterinary^Comparative Theriogenology Comparative Theriogenology V 1-2
Veterinary^Selected Topics in Advanced Clinical Neurology Selected Topics in Advanced Clinical Neurology V 1-2
Veterinary^Diagnostic Ultrasound Diagnostic Ultrasound 2 Diagnostic ultrasound and its application to clinical medicine in large and small animals.
Veterinary^Hospital Rotation Hospital Rotation 3
Veterinary^Advanced Clinical Veterinary Medicine Advanced Clinical Veterinary Medicine V 1-3
Veterinary^Special Topics in Equine Medicine Special Topics in Equine Medicine 1
Veterinary^Advanced Clinical Diagnosis Advanced Clinical Diagnosis V 1-3
Veterinary^Anesthesia Seminar Anesthesia Seminar 1
Veterinary^Advanced Radiology Advanced Radiology 2
Veterinary^Diagnosis and Treatment of Surgically Correctable Soft Tissue Diseases in Small Animals Diagnosis and Treatment of Surgically Correctable Soft Tissue Diseases in Small Animals V 1-2
Veterinary^Surgery Residents Seminar Surgery Residents Seminar 1
Veterinary^Critical Analysis of Veterinary Medicinal Information: Illusional Medicine Critical Analysis of Veterinary Medicinal Information: Illusional Medicine 1
Political Science^American National Government American National Government 3 Introduction to American politics exploring the constitution, political institutions and actors, the policy making process, and various public policies.
Political Science^Introduction to Comparative Politics Introduction to Comparative Politics 3 Nature of the state; fundamental problems of government and politics; ideological and institutional comparison of democracies and dictatorships.
Political Science^International Politics International Politics 3 Operation and interaction of national, international, and supranational communities; major world problems since 1945.
Political Science^Political Research Methods Political Research Methods 3 Training in social science research methodologies as applied to political phenomena.
Political Science^State and Local Government State and Local Government 3 Institutions, processes, and problems, with special reference to the state of Washington.
Political Science^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Political Science^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Political Science^The American Constitution The American Constitution 3 Constitutional principles as established by the Supreme Court and related political developments.
Political Science^Political Simulations Political Simulations 3
Political Science^Gender and Politics Gender and Politics 3 Role of gender in political behavior; voting and political participation; women as subjects and objects of political systems. .
Political Science^National States and Global Challenges National States and Global Challenges 3 Comprehensive introduction to the processes of the economic and political integration of the European Union.
Political Science^American Public Policy American Public Policy 3 Institutions, processes, and substantive issues of American public policy and policy formation.
Political Science^Media and Politics Media and Politics 3 Relationship between the media and American political institutions and the public.
Political Science^Development of Marxist Thought Development of Marxist Thought 3 Marxist theory from the original writing of Marx and Engels to contemporary developments.
Political Science^Introduction to Public Administration Introduction to Public Administration 3 Basic theories of administrative organization, relationships, and behavior.
Political Science^Chicana/o and Latina/o Politics Chicana/o and Latina/o Politics 3 Character, role, and goals of Chicano/Latino politics; contemporary Chicano/Latino issues. .
Political Science^Crime and Justice in the Movies Crime and Justice in the Movies 3 Mass media as both reflector and shaper of public attitudes and opinions about crime, criminals, law, order, and justice; using films. .
Political Science^Political Science Issues Political Science Issues 3
Political Science^Civil Liberties Civil Liberties 3 Origin and development of civil liberties; responsibility of the branches of government and the people for their maintenance.
Political Science^The Judicial Process The Judicial Process 3 Relationship of judicial behavior to structure, politics and the behavior of other participants in the judicial process.
Political Science^Comparative Criminal Justice Systems Comparative Criminal Justice Systems 3 Comparative study of criminal justice systems in the US and selected foreign countries. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^History of American Indian Sovereignty and Federal Indian Law History of American Indian Sovereignty and Federal Indian Law 3 The history of sovereignty and Federal Indian Law against the backdrop of treaties and trust responsibility. .
Political Science^Policy Analysis Policy Analysis 3 Analysis of public policy formation, evaluation and implementation.
Political Science^Voting and Elections Voting and Elections 3 Analysis of voting behavior and elections; turnout, influences on voter choice, congressional and presidential elections, campaign finance, and polling.
Political Science^Human Issues in International Development Human Issues in International Development 3 Interdisciplinary analysis of complex interaction between tradition and modernity in Third World societies. .
Political Science^Political Parties and Interest Groups Political Parties and Interest Groups 3 Roles, characteristics, and theories of political parties; organization, behavior, and impact of interest groups.
Political Science^US National Security Policy US National Security Policy 3 Substantive and theoretical research on issues relevant to formulation and requirements of post-Cold War, US national security and defense policy.
Political Science^United States Foreign Relations United States Foreign Relations 3 Ends and means in foreign policy; organization, management, control, and current policy issues. .
Political Science^Issues in Political Psychology Issues in Political Psychology 3 Introduction to the ways in which psychological factors influence political phenomena.
Political Science^Special Topics in American Foreign and Defense Policy Special Topics in American Foreign and Defense Policy 3
Political Science^The Politics of Natural Resource and Environmental Policy The Politics of Natural Resource and Environmental Policy 3 Issues and problems of natural resource and environmental policy.
Political Science^Comparative Public Policy Comparative Public Policy 3 Processes of public policy formation and outcomes in post-industrial democracies, and how to analyze it in a comparative perspective.
Political Science^Politics of Developing Nations Politics of Developing Nations 3 Issues and problems of political development and modernization common among developing nations.
Political Science^Disability, Aging, and Public Policy Disability, Aging, and Public Policy 3 Application of disability and aging theory to public policy challenges in the 21st century.
Political Science^Classical Political Thought Classical Political Thought 3 The development of political philosophy from the pre-Socratics to Machiavelli.
Political Science^Recent Political Thought Recent Political Thought 3 The development of political thought since Machiavelli. .
Political Science^Leadership Skills for the Public Sector Leadership Skills for the Public Sector 3 Leadership, motivation, team-building, group dynamics, interpersonal and group conflict and job design for the public sector.
Political Science^Administrative Jurisprudence Administrative Jurisprudence 3 Study of the origins, nature, and practice of justice and law in public administration.
Political Science^Public Personnel Administration Public Personnel Administration 3 Development of American civil service systems and concepts; problems and techniques involved in selection and management of public employees. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Public Budgeting Public Budgeting 3 The government budget as an instrument of politics, planning and control; organizing for democratic accountability.
Political Science^Comparative Public Administration Comparative Public Administration 3 Public administration systems in Europe, Japan, Socialist and developing countries; origins and development.
Political Science^Urban Politics and Policy Urban Politics and Policy 3 Urban political processes and policies; intergovernmental relationships; impact of urban reform.
Political Science^The Legislative Process The Legislative Process 3 Role of legislatures in a democratic system; problems of representation; election and tenure of lawmakers; legislative organization and procedures.
Political Science^The Presidency The Presidency 3 Organization and processes of executive institutions at the national level; uses and limits of executive power.
Political Science^European Politics European Politics 3 Government and politics of postindustrial societies, including West Europe and Japan.
Political Science^African Politics African Politics 3 Historical, economic, and social factors that shape contemporary African political systems and problems of nation-building.
Political Science^Mao to Deng: The People's Republic of China, - Mao to Deng: The People's Republic of China, - 3 The major political, social, economic and cultural developments during the People's Republic of China. .
Political Science^Revolutionary China, to Present Revolutionary China, to Present 3 Continuity and change in the political, social, cultural and economic experience of China since 1800. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Political Science^Political Science Internship Political Science Internship V 1-12
Political Science^Cooperative Education Internship Cooperative Education Internship V 2-12
Political Science^The Scope of Political Science The Scope of Political Science 3 Historical development and present status of the discipline; contemporary issues and future trends.
Political Science^Seminar in Normative Theory Seminar in Normative Theory 3 Elements of normative theory developments; examination of bases of controversies and approaches in the modern literature using historical sources.
Political Science^Research Methods in Political Science Research Methods in Political Science 3 Social science research design topics, measurement, sampling, data sources, experimental and quasi-experimental designs, field and historical designs, content analytic designs. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Quantitative Methods in Political Science Quantitative Methods in Political Science 3 Applied statistical skills, enabling understanding of substantive political and social questions.
Political Science^Comparative Criminal Justice Comparative Criminal Justice 3 Comparative study of crime laws and criminal justice systems in selected foreign countries. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Seminar on American Institutions and Processes Seminar on American Institutions and Processes 3 Seminar required of all graduate students using this field as a major or a minor; it is a prerequisite of all other graduate seminars in the field.
Political Science^Seminar in American Political Thought Seminar in American Political Thought 3
Political Science^Seminar in American Institutions Seminar in American Institutions 3
Political Science^Seminar in American Political Behavior Seminar in American Political Behavior 3
Political Science^Seminar in Public Policy Seminar in Public Policy 3 Examination of central questions in public policy including the nature of public policy, policy analysis, and government intervention in society.
Political Science^Seminar on Law, Courts, and Judicial Politics Seminar on Law, Courts, and Judicial Politics 3 Seminar on law, courts, and judicial politics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^American Foreign Policy: Theories and Applications American Foreign Policy: Theories and Applications 3 Theories of international politics applied to American foreign policy. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Seminar in International Security Seminar in International Security 3 International security and arms control politics, negotiations, agreements. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Seminar in International Political Economy Seminar in International Political Economy 3 Institutions, politics, and decision-making processes in managing international economic relations.
Political Science^Topics in Political Psychology Topics in Political Psychology 3
Political Science^Seminar in Comparative Politics Seminar in Comparative Politics 3 Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Special Topics in Comparative Politics Special Topics in Comparative Politics 3
Political Science^Concepts and Methods in Comparative Politics Concepts and Methods in Comparative Politics 3
Political Science^International Development and Human Resources International Development and Human Resources 3 History of and recent changes in international development emphasizing anthropological perspectives. .
Political Science^The Political Science Profession The Political Science Profession 1 Methods, problems, and purposes of teaching, research, and vocation in political science.
Political Science^Proseminar in Public Administration Proseminar in Public Administration 3 Proseminar over viewing basic theories of administrative organization, relationships, and behavior.
Political Science^Seminar in Evaluation Research Seminar in Evaluation Research 3 Interrelationship of ideology, data, policy development, and policy implementation in public policy analysis. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Political Science^Proseminar in Administration, Justice, and Applied Policy Studies Proseminar in Administration, Justice, and Applied Policy Studies 3
Political Science^Topics in Public Administration and Policy Topics in Public Administration and Policy 3
Political Science^The Politics of Policy Process The Politics of Policy Process 3 American political process; policy making under the constraints of a democratic system; relationship to the achievement of the public interest.
Political Science^Policy Studio Course I Policy Studio Course I 2 Public policy training for graduate students in the science and engineering fields through the NSF-IGERT program.
Political Science^Policy Studio Course II Policy Studio Course II 2 Public policy training for graduate students in the science and engineering fields through the NSF-IGERT program.
Political Science^Policy Studio Course III Policy Studio Course III 2 Public policy training for graduate students in the science and engineering fields through the NSF-IGERT program.
Political Science^Graduate Internship Graduate Internship V 2-12
Enviromental Science^The Environment, Human Life, and Sustainability The Environment, Human Life, and Sustainability 4 Interactions between humans and their environment; multidisciplinary introduction to environmental concepts and concerns.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Earth System Science Introduction to Earth System Science 3 Earth's fundamental systems in the context of global change. Recommended: BIOLOGY 106 or CHEM 105.
Enviromental Science^Watersheds and Communities Watersheds and Communities 3 Introduction to basic concepts in hydrology, aquatic ecology, and sustainability.
Enviromental Science^The Science and Policy of Climate Change The Science and Policy of Climate Change 3 The science of the climate system; the case for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and the best policies to do so.
Enviromental Science^Modeling the Environment Modeling the Environment 4 Construction and testing of computer simulation models of environmental systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^Environmental Policy Environmental Policy 3 Global, national, and regional environmental issues and policy.
Enviromental Science^Human Health & the Environment Human Health & the Environment 3 Problem-solving approach to adverse effects on human health caused by contamination of environmental media or anthropogenic changes in ecosystems.
Enviromental Science^Introduction to Radiological Science Introduction to Radiological Science 2 Fundamentals of atomic physics; interactions of radiation with matter; radiation dosimetry and biology, radioecology and radiological health protection.
Enviromental Science^Global Biogeochemistry Global Biogeochemistry 3 Cycles of biogeochemically important elements and anthropogenic changes to those cycles in terrestrial and aquatic environments on a global scale. Field trip required.
Enviromental Science^Environmental Assessment Environmental Assessment 4 Environmental impact statements and their national and state policy frameworks, methods of assessment, and team preparation of an impact statement. Credit not granted for both ENVR SCI 444 and ENVR SCI 544. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^Hazardous Waste Management Hazardous Waste Management 3 Environmental, technical, and political aspects of hazardous waste management; evaluative methods, risk assessment, and current management requirements. Credit not granted for both ENVR SCI 445 and ENVR SCI 545. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^Water in the Environment Water in the Environment 3 Water flows in the natural environment, including cloud formation, rainfall, evaporation, infiltration, groundwater, river flows, lakes, estuaries, mixing, and erosion.
Enviromental Science^Introductory Physical Oceanography Introductory Physical Oceanography 3 Climate, ocean currents, waves, mixing, and erosion, driven by salinity, temperature, winds, gravity, and earth's rotation.
Enviromental Science^Aquatic Microbial Ecology Aquatic Microbial Ecology 2 Biological, ecological and environmental impact of microbes in aquatic systems. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Enviromental Science^Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change 3 Historic and current factors controlling the function of ecosystems and their responses to natural and human caused global change. . Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 469 and 569, or ENVR SCI 469 and 569. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^GIS Spatial Analysis GIS Spatial Analysis 4 Geographic information systems applied to analysis of landscape data; maps, geographic coordinate systems and projections, geodatabases. . Credit not granted for both SOIL SCI 468 and 568, or ENVR SCI 486 and 586. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Enviromental Science^Undergraduate Internship Undergraduate Internship V 1-12
Enviromental Science^Graduate Skills Seminar Graduate Skills Seminar 1 Seminar designed to introduce first year graduate students to the science graduate program; roles and responsibilities of graduate students, teaching assistants and researchers.
Enviromental Science^Ecosystem Management Ecosystem Management 3 Analysis of ecosystem processes; dual emphasis on ecological principles and development of methods and concepts to evaluate policies for management.
Enviromental Science^Fundamentals of Environmental Toxicology Fundamentals of Environmental Toxicology 3 Fundamentals of toxicology; environmental fate and biological deposition and effects of natural products, drugs, food chemicals, and pollutants.
Enviromental Science^Applied Environmental Toxicology Applied Environmental Toxicology 3 Overview of the field of environmental toxicology; interactions of zenobiotics with natural systems.
Enviromental Science^Agroecology Agroecology 3 Social and ecological aspects of agriculture and human food systems.
Enviromental Science^Environmental Assessment Environmental Assessment 4 Environmental impact statements and their national and state policy frameworks, methods of assessment, and team preparation of an impact statement. Credit not granted for both ENVR SCI 444 and ENVR SCI 544. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^Hazardous Waste Management Hazardous Waste Management 3 Environmental, technical, and political aspects of hazardous waste management; evaluative methods, risk assessment, and current management requirements. Credit not granted for both ENVR SCI 445 and ENVR SCI 545. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^System Dynamics Models of Environmental Systems System Dynamics Models of Environmental Systems 3 Analysis of environmental system dynamics; development and uses of simulation models using the Stella software on Macintosh. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change Ecosystem Ecology and Global Change 3 Historic and current factors controlling the function of ecosystems and their responses to natural and human caused global change. . Credit not granted for both BIOLOGY 469 and 569, or ENVR SCI 469 and 569. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Enviromental Science^Aquatic System Restoration Aquatic System Restoration 3 Study of natural, damaged and constructed ecosystems with emphasis on water quality protection and restoration of lakes, rivers, streams and wetlands. . Required preparation must include CHEM 345; MBIOS 101. Required preparation must include CHEM 345; MBIOS 101.
Enviromental Science^GIS Spatial Analysis GIS Spatial Analysis 4 Geographic information systems applied to analysis of landscape data; maps, geographic coordinate systems and projections, geodatabases. . Credit not granted for both SOIL SCI 468 and 568, or ENVR SCI 486 and 586. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Enviromental Science^Seminar in Environmental Science and Regional Planning Seminar in Environmental Science and Regional Planning 1
Statistics^Statistical Thinking Statistical Thinking 3 Scientific explanation; correlations and causality; presenting statistical evidence; graphical and numerical methods; chance and gambling; the bell-shaped distribution. .
Statistics^Introduction to Statistical Methods Introduction to Statistical Methods 4 Introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics: t-tests, chi-square tests, one-way ANOVA, simple linear regression and correlation. .
Statistics^Probability and Statistics Probability and Statistics 3 Probability models, sample spaces, random variables, distributions, moments, comparative experiments, tests, correlation and regression in engineering applications. . Credit not granted for both MATH/STAT 360 and MATH 370. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Statistics^Introductory Statistics for Engineers Introductory Statistics for Engineers 3 Probability axioms, probability models, random variables, expectation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, analysis of variance, control charts. . Credit not granted for both MATH/STAT 360 and MATH/STAT 370.
Statistics^Topics in Probability and Statistics Topics in Probability and Statistics 3
Statistics^Statistical Methods in Research I Statistical Methods in Research I 3 Intermediate statistical methods, design and analysis of research studies: completely randomized and randomized block designs, multiple regression, categorical data analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Statistics^Sampling Methods Sampling Methods 3 Simple and stratified random sampling; systematic sampling; cluster sampling; double sampling, area sampling. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Statistics^Statistical Methods for Engineers and Scientists Statistical Methods for Engineers and Scientists 3 Hypothesis testing; linear, multilinear, and nonlinear regression; analysis of variance for designed experiments; quality control; statistical computing. Credit not normally granted for both STAT 423 and 430. .
Statistics^Statistical Methods in Engineering Statistical Methods in Engineering 3 Random variables, sampling, hypothesis testing; linear, multilinear, and nonlinear regression; analysis of variance for designed experiments; statistical computing.
Statistics^Applied Probability Applied Probability 3 Axioms of probability theory; random variables; expectation; generating function; law of large numbers; central limit theorem; Markov chains. .
Statistics^Introduction to Statistical Theory Introduction to Statistical Theory 3 Sampling distributions; hypothesis testing and estimation; maximum likelihood; likelihood ratio tests; theory of least squares; nonparametrics. .
Statistics^Environmental Spatial Statistics Environmental Spatial Statistics 3 Theoretical introduction and practical training in spatial data analysis for graduate students in the environmental sciences. . Required preparation must include undergraduate statistics through applied multiple regression. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Statistics^Topics in Probability and Statistics Topics in Probability and Statistics 3
Statistics^Analysis of Variance of Designed Experiments Analysis of Variance of Designed Experiments 3 Principles of experimental design and analysis and interpretation of data.
Statistics^Time Series Time Series 3 ARIMA models; identification, estimation, diagnostics, and forecasting; seasonal adjustments, outlier detection, intervention analysis and transfer function modeling. .
Statistics^Applied Multivariate Analysis Applied Multivariate Analysis 3 Multivariate normal distribution, principal components, factor analysis, discriminant function, cluster analysis, Hotteling's T2 and MANOVA. .
Statistics^Statistical Analysis of Qualitative Data Statistical Analysis of Qualitative Data 3 Binomial, Poisson, multinomial distribution; contingency tables, Fisher's tests, log-linear models; ordinal data; applications in biology, business, psychology, and sociology.
Statistics^Biostatistics and Statistical Epidemiology Biostatistics and Statistical Epidemiology 3 Rigorous approach to biostatistical and epidemiological methods including relative risk, odds ratio, cross-over designs, survival analysis and generalized linear models.
Statistics^Statistical Methods for Engineers and Scientists Statistical Methods for Engineers and Scientists 3 Hypothesis testing; linear, multilinear, and nonlinear regression; analysis of variance for designed experiments; quality control; statistical computing. Credit not normally granted for both STAT 423 and 430. .
Statistics^Applied Linear Models Applied Linear Models 3 The design and analysis of experiments by linear models.
Statistics^Theory of Linear Models Theory of Linear Models 3 Theoretical basis of linear regression and analysis of variance models; a unified approach based upon the generalized inverse.
Statistics^Regression Analysis Regression Analysis 3 Conceptual development of regression; estimation, prediction, tests of hypotheses, variable selection, diagnostics, model validation, correlation, and nonlinear regression.
Statistics^Statistical Computing Statistical Computing 3 Generation of random variables, Monte Carlo simulation, bootstrap and jackknife methods, EM algorithm, Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. .
Statistics^Applied Stochastic Processes Applied Stochastic Processes 3 Poisson and Markov processes; queuing theory; auto-covariance; stationarity; power spectra; harmonic analysis; linear mean-square predictions.
Statistics^Statistical Theory I Statistical Theory I 3 Probability spaces, combinatorics, multidimensional random variables, characteristic function, special distributions, limit theorems, stochastic processes, order statistics. .
Statistics^Statistical Theory II Statistical Theory II 3 Continuation of STAT 548. Statistical inferences; estimation and testing hypotheses; regression analysis; sequential analysis and nonparametric methods. .
Statistics^Introduction to Statistical Theory Introduction to Statistical Theory 3 Sampling distributions; hypothesis testing and estimation; maximum likelihood; likelihood ratio tests; theory of least squares; nonparametrics. .
Statistics^Analyzing Microarray and Other Genomic Data Analyzing Microarray and Other Genomic Data 3 Statistical issues from pre-processing and analyzing genomic data .
Statistics^Quality Control Quality Control 3 Simple quality assurance tools; process monitoring; Shewhart control charts; process characterization and capability; sampling inspection; factorial experiments.
Statistics^Reliability Reliability 3 Probabilistic modeling and inference; product-limit estimator; probability plotting; maximum likelihood estimation with censored data; regression models for accelerated life testing.
Statistics^Statistical Consulting Practicum Statistical Consulting Practicum V 1-2
Art History^Introduction to Art Introduction to Art 3 For non-majors. Appreciation of various visual art forms; emphasis on contemporary period.
Art History^Visual Concepts I Visual Concepts I 3 Introduction to visual and conceptual studio art practice through an interdisciplinary approach to two-dimensional space.
Art History^Visual Concepts II Visual Concepts II 3 Introduction to visual and conceptual studio art practice through an interdisciplinary approach to three-dimensional space.
Art History^Drawing Drawing 3 Composition in pictorial space, visualization of ideas, drawing from life.
Art History^Figure Drawing Figure Drawing 3 Introduction to drawing the human figure.
Art History^World Art History I World Art History I 3 Art and architecture of Western and Non-Western cultures from approximately 3000 BCE to 1300 CE.
Art History^World Art History II World Art History II 3 Art and architecture of Western and Non-Western cultures from 1300 to 2010.
Art History^Arts of Native North America Arts of Native North America 3 Diversity of visual forms, traditional and contemporary, within changing historical and cultural contexts.
Art History^Arts of Asia Arts of Asia 3 Art and architecture of India, China and Japan within their historical, religious and cultural contexts. .
Art History^Modern Art-th Century Modern Art-th Century 3 History of 19th century art in Europe and the United States.
Art History^Modern Art-th Century Modern Art-th Century 3 Modern art in the 20th century.
Art History^Arts of Ancient Greece and Rome Arts of Ancient Greece and Rome 3 The arts of ancient Greece, Etruria, and Rome from the Greek Dark Ages to the early Christian era.
Art History^The Arts of Renaissance Europe The Arts of Renaissance Europe 3 The arts of southern and northern Europe from 1300 to 1550.
Art History^Women Artists I Women Artists I 3 Middle Ages through the 18th century. .
Art History^Women Artists II Women Artists II 3 19th to 20th century. .
Art History^Advanced Drawing Advanced Drawing 3
Art History^Drawing from the Body Drawing from the Body 3
Art History^Beginning Painting Beginning Painting 3 Introduction to problems in painting; development of composition and color.
Art History^Intermediate Painting Intermediate Painting 3
Art History^Art, Science, and Technology Art, Science, and Technology 3 Survey of art's relationship to science and technology from Renaissance to present day; emphasis on historical overview and cultural implications.
Art History^Introduction to Digital Media - Print and Web Introduction to Digital Media - Print and Web 3 Introduction to principles and processes of digital media through print and web based projects; emphasis on theoretical investigations, conceptual development
Art History^Introduction to Digital Media - Video and Sound Introduction to Digital Media - Video and Sound 3 Principles and processes of digital media through video and sound-based projects; theoretical investigations and conceptual development.
Art History^Experimental Animation Experimental Animation 3 Digital and analog animation techniques; conceptual development of narrative structures. .
Art History^Ceramics Ceramics 3 Hand building processes; glazing; firing.
Art History^Intermediate Ceramics Intermediate Ceramics 3
Art History^Sculpture Sculpture 3 Composition of form in the three-dimensional space.
Art History^Intermediate Sculpture Intermediate Sculpture 3
Art History^Special Topics - Drawing Special Topics - Drawing V 1-6
Art History^Special Topics - Painting Special Topics - Painting V 1-6
Art History^Special Topics - Digital Media Special Topics - Digital Media V 1-6
Art History^Special Topics - Ceramics Special Topics - Ceramics V 1-6
Art History^Special Topics - Sculpture Special Topics - Sculpture V 1-6
Art History^Special Topics - Printmaking Special Topics - Printmaking V 1-6
Art History^Special Topics - Photography Special Topics - Photography V 1-6
Art History^Apparel Illustration and Rendering Apparel Illustration and Rendering 3 Illustration and rendering used for costume and fashion design. .
Art History^Introduction to Printmaking Introduction to Printmaking 3
Art History^Screenprinting Screenprinting 3 Introduction to the basic techniques, processes and history of screenprinting; collage, repetition, multiples, hand-drawn, photo and digital processes.
Art History^History of Photography History of Photography 3 Historical survey of photography from its invention to the present; conceptual, cultural, and technical implications of the medium.
Art History^Beginning Photography Beginning Photography 3 Camera and black/white film used in conjunction with studio and darkroom techniques; composition and aesthetic concepts introduced. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Art History^Intermediate Photography Intermediate Photography 3
Art History^Digital Imaging Digital Imaging 3
Art History^Special Topics - Art History Special Topics - Art History V 1-6
Art History^Modern Theories of Art Modern Theories of Art 3
Art History^Advanced Non-western Art History Advanced Non-western Art History 3
Art History^Contemporary Art: Theory and Practice Contemporary Art: Theory and Practice 3 Contemporary theories of art and how those theories are developed. .
Art History^Art History Thesis Art History Thesis 3
Art History^Advanced Painting Advanced Painting V 3 to 6
Art History^Print Based Media Print Based Media 3
Art History^Time Based Media Time Based Media 3
Art History^Interactive Media Interactive Media 3 Interactive possibilities in digital media including web-based projects, installation and physical computing.
Art History^Advanced Ceramics Advanced Ceramics V 3 to 6
Art History^Material and Performance Material and Performance 3 Studio-based class providing understanding of contemporary issues related to fiber materials and performance.
Art History^Advanced Sculpture Advanced Sculpture V 3 to 6
Art History^Advanced Printmaking Advanced Printmaking 3
Art History^Advanced Photography Advanced Photography V 3 to 6
Art History^Gallery Procedures with Museum of Art Gallery Procedures with Museum of Art V 3 to 6
Art History^Senior Exhibit Senior Exhibit 4 Independent study involving exhibit, written thesis and oral examination working with area coordinator.
Art History^Fine Arts Internship Fine Arts Internship V 1-12
Art History^Contemporary Issues Seminar Contemporary Issues Seminar 3 Research seminar examining current issues confronting art and artists.
Art History^Graduate Art History Graduate Art History 2
Art History^Graduate Drawing Graduate Drawing 3
Art History^Graduate Drawing Graduate Drawing 3
Art History^Graduate Drawing Graduate Drawing 3
Art History^Graduate Painting Graduate Painting 3
Art History^Graduate Painting Graduate Painting 3
Art History^Graduate Painting Graduate Painting 3
Art History^Graduate Digital Media Graduate Digital Media 3
Art History^Graduate Digital Media Graduate Digital Media 3
Art History^Graduate Digital Media Graduate Digital Media 3
Art History^Graduate Ceramics Graduate Ceramics 3
Art History^Graduate Ceramics Graduate Ceramics 3
Art History^Graduate Ceramics Graduate Ceramics 3
Art History^Graduate Sculpture Graduate Sculpture 3
Art History^Graduate Sculpture Graduate Sculpture 3
Art History^Graduate Sculpture Graduate Sculpture 3
Art History^Graduate Printmaking Graduate Printmaking 3
Art History^Graduate Printmaking Graduate Printmaking 3
Art History^Graduate Printmaking Graduate Printmaking 3
Art History^Graduate Photography Graduate Photography 3
Art History^Graduate Photography Graduate Photography 3
Art History^Graduate Photography Graduate Photography 3
Art History^Graduate Seminar Graduate Seminar 2
Design^Introduction to Digital Modeling Introduction to Digital Modeling 3 Computer-aided drafting fundamentals and basic theoretical concepts related to its use in professional design practice.
Design^-D Digital Modeling and Project Information Management I -D Digital Modeling and Project Information Management I 3 3-D digital modeling as a medium to support design visualization, investigation and communication including project information management; emphasis on Revit suite software.
Design^-D Digital Modeling and Project Information Management II -D Digital Modeling and Project Information Management II 3 Integration of advanced building information modeling techniques utilizing complex applications within the Revit software suite.
Design^Advanced Digital Modeling Advanced Digital Modeling 3 Broad integration of Non-Uniform Rational B-spline modeling techniques including practical fundamentals and theoretical concepts of modeling, rendering and animation.
Design^Applications: Using Research in the Inquiry Process Applications: Using Research in the Inquiry Process 3 Application of scientific research in the advanced design process.
Design^Seminar in Design Thinking Seminar in Design Thinking 3 Understanding design thinking or design knowing and translating research and theory into practice.
Design^Area Readings Area Readings 3 Forum for the advancement of understanding and discussion of readings related to interdisciplinary design.
Design^Directed Readings Directed Readings 3 Advanced critical and comprehensive reviews of literature pertinent to student's focus area; development of specialization and expertise in identified area.
Design^Design Research Methods Design Research Methods 4 Development and preparation of research proposals; identification of theories, exploration of research methods and strategies; development of thesis statement and literature review.
Design^Dissertation Proposal Planning Dissertation Proposal Planning 2 Write and present independent research proposal based on work in DESIGN 564 to prospective doctoral committee members.
Design^Research Practicum Research Practicum 3 Interdisciplinary research in design; focus on development and application of individual research.
Design^Teaching Practicum Teaching Practicum V 1-3
Design^Topics in Design Topics in Design V 1-3
English^Introductory College Composition Introductory College Composition 3 Designed to introduce students to writing and reading in the university.
English^College Composition College Composition 3 Designed to further develop students' academic writing, critical thinking, rhetorical strategies, reading and library skills. Credit not granted for more than one of ENGLISH 101 and 105.
English^Writing Tutorial Writing Tutorial 1
English^Introductory Composition for Multilingual Writers Introductory Composition for Multilingual Writers 3 Designed to introduce non-native speakers of English to writing and reading in the university.
English^College Composition for Multilingual Writers College Composition for Multilingual Writers 3 Designed to further develop academic writing, critical thinking, reading, library skills, and rhetorical strategies for non-native speakers of English. Credit not granted for more than one of ENGLISH 101 and 105.
English^Communicating in Academic Contexts Communicating in Academic Contexts 3 Designed to help improve listening and speaking skills for better participation in academic interactions across campus. For ESL students.
English^Writing Tutorial for Multilingual Writers Writing Tutorial for Multilingual Writers 1
English^Introduction to Literature Introduction to Literature 3 Reading short stories, novels, plays, and poetry by diverse voices; role of conventions, culture, history in interpretation of literature. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 108 and 199.
English^Reading Now Reading Now 3 Contemporary writing including fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction and graphic novels.
English^Introduction of Film as Narrative Introduction of Film as Narrative 3 Introduction to analysis of techniques and elements of narrative film and to critical vocabulary for its study as art form.
English^English Composition and Literature Honors English Composition and Literature Honors 3 Open to students only in the Honors College. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 108 and 199.
English^Expository Writing Expository Writing V 1-2 For transfer students who need to make up writing credits.
English^Writing and Research Writing and Research 3 Designed to develop students' researching skills for writing across the disciplines.
English^Grammar in Context Grammar in Context 1
English^Introduction to Shakespeare Introduction to Shakespeare 3 Shakespeare plays with emphasis on stage productions and film adaptations in various cultural contexts.
English^Readings in American Literature Readings in American Literature 3 Selected works by diverse voices from different eras of American literature; importance of conventions, cultural contexts, for interpretation and understanding.
English^Sex Matters: Introduction to Queer Culture and Literature Sex Matters: Introduction to Queer Culture and Literature 3 Introduction to Lesbian/queer cultural production focusing on popular culture, fiction, and film; work from various queer communities in its cultural/historical context. .
English^American Cultures American Cultures 3 Introduction to the interdisciplinary study of American cultures and the field of American studies. .
English^Introduction to Multicultural Literature Introduction to Multicultural Literature 3 Survey of multicultural literature including European American, African American, Asian American, Chicana/o, and Native American authors. .
English^World Literature in English World Literature in English 3 Literature in English from such regions as Africa, Asia, and the Caribbean.
English^Introduction to Creative Writing: Exploring the Genres Introduction to Creative Writing: Exploring the Genres 3 Beginning writer's workshop covering short fiction, creative nonfiction, and poetry with discussion of the elements of each genre; poetic forms.
English^Introduction to Creative Writing and Creative Writing Pedagogy Introduction to Creative Writing and Creative Writing Pedagogy 3 Beginning workshop with discussion and development of classroom approaches to three creative writing genres for the preprofessional secondary English teacher.
English^English Grammar English Grammar 3 Introduction to the terms, concepts, and analytical methods of traditional English grammar.
English^Introduction to Linguistics Introduction to Linguistics 3 Technical introduction to sound, meaning, and structure of words and sentences in natural languages.
English^Writing and Research Honors Writing and Research Honors 3 Critical thinking, research, and advanced writing for Honors College students.
English^Writing Tutorial for Honors Students Writing Tutorial for Honors Students 1
English^Computers in English Computers in English 1
English^Writing and Rhetorical Conventions Writing and Rhetorical Conventions 3 Designed to provide students with advanced practice in and study of style, argument, and other rhetorical/discourse conventions.
English^Introduction to English Studies Introduction to English Studies 3 Interpretation of texts in several fields of English studies including rhetoric, literary study, creative writing and professional writing.
English^Revision Workshop - ESL Revision Workshop - ESL 3 Appreciation of writing processes and revision for speakers of English as a second or foreign language, including self-assessment, developing rhetorical approaches, diagnosing and solving consistent problems, editing, and proofreading strategies.
English^Revision Workshop Revision Workshop 3 Appreciation of writing processes and revision, including self-assessment, developing rhetorical approaches; diagnosing and solving consistent problems, editing, and proofreading strategies.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare 3 Shakespearean drama to 1600.
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare 3 Shakespearean drama after 1600.
English^Historicized Analysis of Literature Historicized Analysis of Literature 3 Introduction to analyzing literary texts in relation to literary and cultural history.
English^Introduction to Literary Criticism Introduction to Literary Criticism 3 Introduction to the systematic study of critical and theoretical approaches to literature; emphasis on problems of interpretation. .
English^Women Writers Women Writers 3 Women's artistic and intellectual contributions to prose, fiction, drama, and poetry. .
English^Asian Pacific American Literature Asian Pacific American Literature 3 Asian American fiction, drama, poetry, and other arts, 1900 to present; impact of Asian/Pacific American culture and experience upon these works. .
English^Topics in Asian Pacific American Literature Topics in Asian Pacific American Literature 3
English^Asian Pacific American Autobiography Asian Pacific American Autobiography 3 Critical readings of the autobiographical works, memoirs, and life writings by Asian Pacific Americans. .
English^South Asian Film South Asian Film 3 Exploration of films by directors in South Asia and in the South Asian diaspora.
English^Gay and Lesbian Literature Gay and Lesbian Literature 3 Gay and lesbian literature with focus on the history of homosexual literature and exploration of current authors. .
English^African American Literature African American Literature 3 Introduction to major issues and major works in the African American literary tradition. .
English^Topics in African American Literature Topics in African American Literature 3
English^Approaches to the Teaching of English Approaches to the Teaching of English 3 Literature and language arts in secondary schools.
English^Rhetoric and Composition for Teaching Rhetoric and Composition for Teaching 3 Rhetoric, composition grammar, and assessment for secondary teaching.
English^Young Adult Literature Young Adult Literature 3 Issues in literature written for young adults and strategies for teaching the genre in secondary schools.
English^Applied Grammar for Teachers Applied Grammar for Teachers 3 Application of traditional English grammar for K-12 teachers, with focus on edited, American, African American, vernacular, and Spanish-influenced Englishes.
English^Topics in Literature Topics in Literature 3
English^Composition and Design Composition and Design 3 Design practices and process for composing for a multimedia environment including color, pattern and shape. .
English^Experimental Animation Experimental Animation 3 Digital and analog animation techniques; conceptual development of narrative structures. .
English^Topics: Major Trends and Figures Topics: Major Trends and Figures 3
English^Topics in Film as Literature Topics in Film as Literature 3
English^Science Fiction Film Science Fiction Film 3 Major science fiction films and the literature which inspired them.
English^Native American Literature Native American Literature 3 Native American literature, by and about the original inhabitants, image and counter-image, with emphasis on the 20th century. .
English^Documentary Film Theory and Production Documentary Film Theory and Production 3 Theory of documentary film in social contexts culminating in the creation of actual documentary films by students.
English^Chicana/o - Latina/o Literature Chicana/o - Latina/o Literature 3 Chicana/o and Latina/o literature, narrative, novel, autobiography, poetry, short story, and drama. .
English^Creative Writing: Prose Creative Writing: Prose 3
English^Creative Writing: Poetry Creative Writing: Poetry 3 Workshop approach to poetry writing.
English^Creative Writing: Nonfiction Creative Writing: Nonfiction 3 Writing literary nonfiction: practice and theory.
English^Digital Storytelling Digital Storytelling 3 Nonlinear, multi-linear, and interactive narrative using elements of creative writing such as character, dialog, setting, plot and image. .
English^Multimedia Authoring: Exploring New Rhetorics Multimedia Authoring: Exploring New Rhetorics 3 Writing for new computer-based media; multimedia authoring project; examination of new rhetorics of information technology. .
English^Electronic Research and the Rhetoric of Information Electronic Research and the Rhetoric of Information 3 Social and cultural role of information; research with electronic sources; production, validation, storage, retrieval, evaluation, use, impact of electronic information. .
English^Literary Editing and Publishing Literary Editing and Publishing 3
English^Workshop Topics in Writing, Teaching, Literature Workshop Topics in Writing, Teaching, Literature 1
English^Topics in Creative Writing Topics in Creative Writing 3
English^Principles of Rhetoric Principles of Rhetoric 3 Basic concepts and approaches to the art of persuasion.
English^Everyday Rhetorics Everyday Rhetorics 3 Rhetorics as language and image of popular culture.
English^Rhetorics of Racism Rhetorics of Racism 3 The language of racism since WWII.
English^Rhetoric: Literacy, Power and Agency Rhetoric: Literacy, Power and Agency 3 Major discussions on literacy emphasizing the historical, social, linguistic and pedagogical.
English^Legal Writing Legal Writing 3 Introduction to the American legal system and the style, arguments and accepted forms of professional writing in this discipline.
English^The British Novel to The British Novel to 3 Exploration of the diverse themes, social contexts, and intellectual backgrounds of the novel and novel reading in Britain to 1900.
English^The American Novel to The American Novel to 3 Classic American novels in cultural perspective by such authors as Cooper, Hawthorne, Melville, Stowe, Twain, James, Jewett, Chopin, Crane, Dreiser.
English^The Making of English: Literature, Language and Culture Before The Making of English: Literature, Language and Culture Before 3 Literature before 1600, highlighting the making of English through its interaction with other cultures/languages including Anglo-Saxon.
English^th and th Century Transnational Literature in English th and th Century Transnational Literature in English 3 Literary and cultural texts in English from 1600 to 1800 including British and colonial American literatures within their transnational contexts.
English^th Century Literature of the British Empire and the Americas th Century Literature of the British Empire and the Americas 3 Literary and cultural texts in English from 1800 to 1900 focusing on global British literature and literatures of the Americas.
English^th and st Century Global Literatures in English th and st Century Global Literatures in English 3 Literary and cultural texts in English from 1900 to the present focusing on literatures representing the complex processes of globalization.
English^Language, Texts and Technology Language, Texts and Technology 3 Relationship between technology and communication; writing practices from a historical point of view. .
English^History of Rhetoric History of Rhetoric 3 Survey of influential theories of rhetoric, ancient to modern.
English^Technical and Professional Writing Technical and Professional Writing 3 Research writing: defining, proposing, reporting progress; presenting a final product; other professional writing needs. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 402 and 403.
English^Technical and Professional Writing ESL Technical and Professional Writing ESL 3 For non-native speakers of English. Special grammatical and rhetorical problems. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 402 and 403.
English^Advanced Professional Writing and Editing Advanced Professional Writing and Editing 3 Other background may substitute. See department. Professional writing and editing; textual alterations, design, and layout, including internship experience.
English^Women Writers in the American West Women Writers in the American West 3 Diversity of writings by women in the trans-Missouri West from the 1890s to the present. .
English^Cultural Criticism and Theory Cultural Criticism and Theory 3 Major critiques and theories of colonialist and imperialist formations of culture. .
English^Traditions of Comedy and Tragedy Traditions of Comedy and Tragedy 3 Study of tragedy and comedy in the Age of Shakespeare.
English^The Twentieth Century Novel The Twentieth Century Novel 3 The novel in English in the literary and cultural context of the modern age.
English^Phonology Phonology 3 Technical introductions to the analysis of the sound systems of human languages. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 443 and 543. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
English^Syntax Syntax 3 Technical introduction to the generative analysis of sentence structure with a focus on English. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 444 and 544. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
English^Form and Theory in Creative Writing: Prose and Poetry Form and Theory in Creative Writing: Prose and Poetry 3 Formal elements of fiction, creative nonfiction, poetry for creative writing students; analysis of contemporary applications of traditional and experimental techniques.
English^Advanced Creative Writing: Fiction Advanced Creative Writing: Fiction 3
English^Advanced Creative Writing: Poetry Advanced Creative Writing: Poetry 3
English^Advanced Creative Writing: Nonfiction Prose Advanced Creative Writing: Nonfiction Prose 3
English^History of the English Language History of the English Language 3 Language related to the origin, history, and literature of its speakers. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 454 and ENGLISH 554. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
English^Language Acquisition Language Acquisition 3 Theories and processes of first, second, and bilingual language acquisition.
English^Sociolinguistics Sociolinguistics 3 Study of language in social context and its relationship to social structures.
English^Topics in Linguistics Topics in Linguistics 3
English^The Scope of Rhetoric The Scope of Rhetoric 3 Major themes in contemporary rhetoric.
English^Theory and Practice in Technical and Professional Writing Theory and Practice in Technical and Professional Writing 3 Practices in technical and professional writing and the theories that challenge and/or legitimize those practices.
English^Literature and Culture of the American West Literature and Culture of the American West 3
English^Ecological Issues and American Nature Writing Ecological Issues and American Nature Writing 3 Representation of nature in American fiction and nonfiction; role of culture in shaping environmental problems and solutions. .
English^Digital Diversity Digital Diversity 3 Cultural impact of electronic media, especially the World-Wide Web; issues of race, class, gender, sexuality online. .
English^Digital Literacies Digital Literacies 3 Development and use of new literacies as they affect communication through technology. .
English^Advanced Multimedia Authoring Advanced Multimedia Authoring 3 Advanced writing, imaging and teamwork skills for authoring in new computer-based media; website project in client-oriented context. .
English^Usability and Interface Design Usability and Interface Design 3 Design of websites using best practices of visual literacy, interface architecture and usability. .
English^American Literature: Beginnings to American Literature: Beginnings to 3 Advanced study of major authors and movements from the period including Bradstreet, Wheatley, Franklin, Douglass, Poe, Emerson, and Hawthorne.
English^American Literature: - American Literature: - 3 Advanced study of major authors and movements from the period including Whitman, Dickinson, Twain, Wharton, James, Hemingway, Faulkner, and Wright.
English^American Literature: -Present American Literature: -Present 3 Advanced study of major authors and movements from the period including O'Connor, Bellow, Salinger, Baldwin, Pynchon, Morrison, Tan, and Alexie. .
English^Chaucer and Medieval Literature Chaucer and Medieval Literature 3 Advanced study of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales in the context of Medieval culture and literary tradition.
English^English Literature of the th Century English Literature of the th Century 3 Advanced study of English Renaissance literature, including More, Sidney, Spenser, Marlowe, and Shakespeare, in age of Humanism and Reformation. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 484 and ENGLISH 584. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
English^Milton and English Literature of the th Century Milton and English Literature of the th Century 3 Advanced study of works from the Metaphysicals and Johnson through Milton, in the context of religious controversy and civil war.
English^English Literature of the Restoration and th Century English Literature of the Restoration and th Century 3 Advanced study of works form this revolutionary period, including Locke, Behn, Defoe, Pope, Johnson, Equiano, and others.
English^British Romantic Literature British Romantic Literature 3 Advanced study of Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Mary Shelley, Keats, and others in an age of social and aesthetic revolution, 1770-1840.
English^Victorian Literature Victorian Literature 3 Advanced study of Tennyson, Dickens, Eliot, Wilde, and others in the context of science, industrialization, and empire, 1832-1901.
English^th/st Century British and Postcolonial Literatures th/st Century British and Postcolonial Literatures 3 Advanced study of modernist, postmodernist, and postcolonial writing from Britain, Ireland, Africa, the Indian subcontinent, and the Caribbean.
English^Advanced Topics in Literature, Criticism, and Theory Advanced Topics in Literature, Criticism, and Theory 3
English^Advanced Topics in Literature Advanced Topics in Literature 3
English^Rhetoric of Science and Technology Rhetoric of Science and Technology 3 Written, visual, and verbal conventions of scientific disciplines for academic, scientific, technical, and public audiences.
English^Seminar in the Teaching of Writing: Methodology of Composition Seminar in the Teaching of Writing: Methodology of Composition 3 Development of a workable definition of the methods of composing through a review of relevant research and problem-solving exercises.
English^Seminar in the Teaching of Writing: Contemporary Theories Seminar in the Teaching of Writing: Contemporary Theories 3 Contemporary theories of composition and their application to the classroom.
English^Seminar in th Century English Literature Seminar in th Century English Literature 3
English^Shakespeare Shakespeare 3 Plays, poems, criticism, and background materials.
English^Seminar in Assessment of Writing Seminar in Assessment of Writing 3 Problems involved in the diagnosis and assessment of student writing.
English^Seminar in Classical Rhetoric and its Influences Seminar in Classical Rhetoric and its Influences 3 Study of GREEK and Roman rhetorical theories and their influences.
English^Backgrounds of American Literature Backgrounds of American Literature 3 Studies of American writing in cultural contexts.
English^Seminar in th and th Century American Literature Seminar in th and th Century American Literature 3
English^Introduction to Graduate Study Introduction to Graduate Study 3
English^Seminar in th Century American Literature Seminar in th Century American Literature 3
English^Contemporary Theories of Rhetoric Contemporary Theories of Rhetoric 3 Contemporary critical theory and cultural studies and reconsiderations of suasive discursive practices.
English^Seminar in British Romantic Literature Seminar in British Romantic Literature 3
English^Seminar in Victorian Literature Seminar in Victorian Literature 3
English^Seminar in English Literature of the th Century Seminar in English Literature of the th Century 3
English^Seminar in English Literature of the Restoration and th Century Seminar in English Literature of the Restoration and th Century 3
English^Seminar in th Century American Literature Seminar in th Century American Literature 3
English^Administering a Writing Program Administering a Writing Program 3 Combining theory and practice in writing program supervision and management. Interns will work under direct faculty supervision.
English^Teaching Writing to Nontraditional Students Teaching Writing to Nontraditional Students 3 Theory and practice of the teaching of basic writers.
English^Theories and Methods of the Teaching of Technical and Professional Writing Theories and Methods of the Teaching of Technical and Professional Writing 3 Historical and theoretical bases for production of scientific discourse; training in its practical applications.
English^Phonology Phonology 3 Technical introductions to the analysis of the sound systems of human languages. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 443 and 543. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
English^Syntax Syntax 3 Technical introduction to the generative analysis of sentence structure with a focus on English. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 444 and 544. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
English^Topics in Teaching English as a Second Language Topics in Teaching English as a Second Language 3
English^Seminar in Critical and Cultural Theory Seminar in Critical and Cultural Theory 3
English^Seminar in th Century British Literature Seminar in th Century British Literature 3
English^Seminar in Poetry or Non-fiction Prose Seminar in Poetry or Non-fiction Prose 3
English^History of the English Language History of the English Language 3 Language related to the origin, history, and literature of its speakers. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 454 and ENGLISH 554. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
English^Critical Theories, Methods, and Practice in Digital Humanities Critical Theories, Methods, and Practice in Digital Humanities 3 History, theory, and practice of digital humanities, with attention paid to how digital humanities are transforming disciplinary knowledge. .
English^Studies in Technology and Culture Studies in Technology and Culture 3 Foundation examination of key concepts, tools, and possibilities afforded by engaging with technology through a critical cultural lens. .
English^Seminar in Prose Fiction Seminar in Prose Fiction 3
English^Seminar in American Literature Seminar in American Literature 3
English^Seminar in Medieval Literature Seminar in Medieval Literature 3
English^English Literature of the th Century English Literature of the th Century 3 Advanced study of English Renaissance literature, including More, Sidney, Spenser, Marlowe, and Shakespeare, in age of Humanism and Reformation. Credit not granted for both ENGLISH 484 and ENGLISH 584. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
English^Research in English Studies Research in English Studies 1
English^Topics in Pedagogy Topics in Pedagogy 3 Theory and practice of designing and teaching courses in literature, rhetoric, composition, theory, or cultural studies.
English^Topics in English Topics in English 3
English^Topics in Composition and Rhetoric Topics in Composition and Rhetoric 3
English^Teaching Apprenticeship Teaching Apprenticeship 1
Architecture^Graphics Communication Graphics Communication 3 Drawing to perceive three-dimensional space; freehand drawing, drafting, isometric and orthographic drawing; perspective, shades and shadows, lettering, and rendering techniques.
Architecture^Visual Design Visual Design 3 Two- and three-dimensional design and spatial studies; abstract studies in form, color and texture; introduction to architectural design processes.
Architecture^Architectural Design I Architectural Design I 4 Introduction to architectural design focusing on composition, conceptual design and principles of organization, scale, proportion, rhythm and 3-D development.
Architecture^The Built Environment The Built Environment 3 Design and planning of the built environment: products, interiors, structures, landscapes, cities, regions, earth; human-environmental interactions, sustainability, and quality. .
Architecture^Architectural Design II Architectural Design II 4 Introduction to architectural design focusing on the art and aesthetics of structural expression and principles of structure as an ordering system.
Architecture^Design Theory I Design Theory I 3 Design theory relating to building technology, systems and crafts which influence design decisions.
Architecture^Digital Analysis and Representation Digital Analysis and Representation 3 Introduction to analysis and representation with a focus on the use of digital tools.
Architecture^Issues in Sustainable Architecture Issues in Sustainable Architecture 3 Introduction to analysis and representation with a focus on the use of digital tools.
Architecture^Architectural History I Architectural History I 3 Historic development of world architecture from prehistory to late medieval; social, technical and scientific influences.
Architecture^Architectural Design III Architectural Design III 5 Introduction of architectural design focusing on environmental and social issues.
Architecture^Architectural Design IV Architectural Design IV 5 Continuation of study of architectural design/form as influenced by cultural, spiritual and symbolic issues.
Architecture^Modern Architecture and Theory Modern Architecture and Theory 3 Built and theoretical developments in architecture from the nineteenth century to present; content may be linked to study tour.
Architecture^Renaissance to Baroque Architecture Renaissance to Baroque Architecture 3 Western architecture from the Renaissance to Baroque to pioneers of modern architecture.
Architecture^Materials and Construction I Materials and Construction I 3 Wood, steel, concrete, and masonry systems materials; introduction of materials related to building systems; frame bearing wall and roof systems, skin systems.
Architecture^Architectural Structures I Architectural Structures I 3 Introduction to statics and mechanics; analysis and design of statically determinate architectural structures using timber, steel, and reinforced concrete systems.
Architecture^Architectural Structures II Architectural Structures II 3 Continuation of ARCH 351.
Architecture^Structures Studio I Structures Studio I 1 Design principles of architectural structures systems; available systems for spanning and enclosing architectural space.
Architecture^Structures Studio II Structures Studio II 1 Continuation of ARCH 353.
Architecture^Architectural Design V Architectural Design V 5 Advanced architectural design focusing on technology, systems and crafts of buildings.
Architecture^Architectural Design VI Architectural Design VI 5 Advanced study of architectural design/form as influenced by social and environmental issues applied to large-scale developments.
Architecture^Design Theory VI Design Theory VI 3 Advanced design theory relating to social and environmental issues which influence housing design for the urban environment.
Architecture^Architecture and Culture in the Islamic World Architecture and Culture in the Islamic World 3 A thematic course exploring the relationship between architecture and culture in the context of Islamic civilization.
Architecture^Environmental Control of Buildings I Environmental Control of Buildings I 3 Mechanical systems for buildings; building heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems, heat flow concepts.
Architecture^Environmental Control of Buildings II Environmental Control of Buildings II 3 Water supply, drainage, electrical and lighting systems for buildings.
Architecture^Contemporary Furniture Design Contemporary Furniture Design 3 Investigation of issues related to the design and fabrication of furniture; students design and fabricate projects in the school shop.
Architecture^Architectural Acoustics for Construction Management Architectural Acoustics for Construction Management 2 Introduction to the art and science of architectural acoustics with emphasis on understanding construction performance specifications. .
Architecture^Computer Animation I Computer Animation I 3 Introduction to computer animation production and building simulation; applicable for all majors.
Architecture^Computer-aided Design I Computer-aided Design I 3 Computer-aided design related to 3D modeling and construction documents.
Architecture^Computer-aided Design II Computer-aided Design II 2 Continuation of ARCH 451. Computer-aided design related to 3D modeling and construction documents.
Architecture^Field Sketching/Journal Keeping Field Sketching/Journal Keeping 3 Field-sketching/journal-keeping strategies to facilitate investigation and comprehension of the built environment.
Architecture^Architectural Structures III Architectural Structures III 3 Wind and seismic loads on architectural structures; high-rise systems; reinforced concrete and masonry structures. Credit not granted for both ARCH 463 and ARCH 563. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Architecture^Architectural Structures IV Architectural Structures IV 3 Deflection theory; classical and computer analysis for statically indeterminate architectural structure systems. Credit not granted for both ARCH 464 and ARCH 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Architecture^Codes and Acoustics Codes and Acoustics 3 Building codes and specifications; sound theory, control, and acoustic systems applied to buildings.
Architecture^Architecture Internship Architecture Internship V 1-16
Architecture^Seminar in Architectural Design Seminar in Architectural Design V 1-4
Architecture^Seminar in Architectural Communications Seminar in Architectural Communications V 1-4
Architecture^Seminar in Architectural History Seminar in Architectural History V 1-4
Architecture^Seminar in Environmental Control Seminar in Environmental Control V 1-4
Architecture^Seminar in Urban and Regional Planning Seminar in Urban and Regional Planning V 1-4
Architecture^Seminar in Construction Management Seminar in Construction Management V 1-4
Architecture^Seminar in Computer Applications Seminar in Computer Applications V 1-4
Architecture^Architectural Design Studio Architectural Design Studio 6 Graduate studio experience researching a single topic of architectural relevance . Field trip required.
Architecture^Design VIII/Graduate Design Project Design VIII/Graduate Design Project 6 Studio course divided between urban design and preliminary design on graduate project.
Architecture^Graduate Design Project Graduate Design Project 6 Final graduate design studio focusing on individualized topics.
Architecture^Research Methods and Programming Research Methods and Programming 3 Exploration of traditional research methods and investigations for architects.
Architecture^Directed Topics in Architecture Directed Topics in Architecture V 1-3
Architecture^History and Theory History and Theory 3 History and theory of 20th century architecture focusing on cultural and philosophical principles related to design.
Architecture^Site and Landscape Design Site and Landscape Design 3 Exploration of issues of site context analysis, topography, planning, and landscape design.
Architecture^Philosophies and Theories of the Built Environment Philosophies and Theories of the Built Environment 3 Focus on systematic thought which may describe behavior of the built environment. .
Architecture^Advanced Tectonics Advanced Tectonics 3 Tectonic theory of concrete and metal construction with focus on skin design and technology as formative elements in architecture.
Architecture^Research Methods Research Methods 3 Research methods, from quantitative to technical to philosophical, directed toward qualitative research. .
Architecture^Issues in Architecture Issues in Architecture 3 Examination of issues in architecture related to society, culture, environment, politics, and philosophy.
Architecture^Interdisciplinary Seminar Interdisciplinary Seminar 3 Explores approaches to design thinking in the topic areas of people and place, history, theory and criticism, and physical design. .
Architecture^Architectural Structures III Architectural Structures III 3 Wind and seismic loads on architectural structures; high-rise systems; reinforced concrete and masonry structures. Credit not granted for both ARCH 463 and ARCH 563. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Architecture^Architectural Structures IV Architectural Structures IV 3 Deflection theory; classical and computer analysis for statically indeterminate architectural structure systems. Credit not granted for both ARCH 464 and ARCH 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Architecture^Advanced Architectural Studio/Laboratory Advanced Architectural Studio/Laboratory 6 In-depth study of design problems relating to cultural, environmental, technological and other issues as related to the student?s area of emphasis.
Architecture^Advanced Architectural Studio II Advanced Architectural Studio II 6 Drawing from architectural historical and theoretical research, urban architectural design case study, research in the arts, humanities and social sciences.
Architecture^Ethics and Practice Ethics and Practice 3 Ethical and professional practice issues related to the business and practice of architecture; investigations into marketing client and business orientation.
Architecture^Theories and Methods of Urban Construction Theories and Methods of Urban Construction 3 Morphology, theoretical concepts, planning and spatial structure of cities and analysis of the transformation of the city core in Europe and America.
Architecture^Architecture Internship Architecture Internship V 1-4
Architecture^Master's Research, Thesis, and/or Examination. Master's Research, Thesis, and/or Examination. V 1-18
Molecular BioScience^Introductory Microbiology Introductory Microbiology 4 Microbiology for the informed citizen as it impacts humans and their environment. Not for students needing BIOLOGY 106 and 107.
Molecular BioScience^Molecular Biosciences Seminar Molecular Biosciences Seminar 1 Introduction to the field of molecular biosciences: careers, current events, research opportunities at WSU, scientific and research ethics.
Molecular BioScience^Your Future in Life Sciences Your Future in Life Sciences 2 Exploration of career options in biological sciences with faculty and outside speakers; guide to preparing resume and career plans. .
Molecular BioScience^General Genetics General Genetics 4 Principles of modern and classical genetics. .
Molecular BioScience^Introductory Biochemistry Introductory Biochemistry 4 Modern biochemistry for undergraduates in the biological sciences. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Molecular BioScience^Microbiology and Molecular Biology Laboratory Microbiology and Molecular Biology Laboratory 3 Basic microbiology and molecular biology techniques.
Molecular BioScience^General Microbiology General Microbiology 3 Structure, function, nutrition, physiology, and genetics of microbes and their application to immunology, pathology, microbial diversity, and environmental microbiology.
Molecular BioScience^General Microbiology Laboratory General Microbiology Laboratory 2 Laboratory for MBIOS 305.
Molecular BioScience^DNA and Society DNA and Society 3 The role of DNA in natural processes and diseases; impact of biotechnology on health care, agriculture, industry, and our lives.
Molecular BioScience^Microbial Ecology Microbial Ecology 3 Discussion of microorganism behavior in nature and microbial activities influence on ecological balance.
Molecular BioScience^Cell and Molecular Laboratory Cell and Molecular Laboratory 2 Laboratory methods in cell biology, genetics and molecular biology.
Molecular BioScience^Cell Biology Cell Biology 3 Cellular structure and function; membrane biochemistry and transport; cell-cell communication; regulation of cell cycle and apoptosis; cell signaling; cancer biology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 401 and MBIOS 501.
Molecular BioScience^Genetics Laboratory Genetics Laboratory 3 Basic principles of modern and classical genetics utilizing several species.
Molecular BioScience^Molecular Biology Molecular Biology 3 Introduction of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genome organization and gene expression, modern molecular techniques, experimental approaches, genome and gene function and analyses.
Molecular BioScience^Cell Biology of Disease Cell Biology of Disease 3 Discussion of human diseases characterized by cell biological defects, using popular press and research articles as a source of information. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 405 and 505. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Molecular BioScience^Medical Microbiology Medical Microbiology 3 Microbial pathogens and their relationship to disease.
Molecular BioScience^Diagnostic Medical Bacteriology Diagnostic Medical Bacteriology 3 Techniques and tests for the identification of bacteria pathogenic for humans.
Molecular BioScience^General Biochemistry General Biochemistry 3 Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids and biological membranes; principles of enzymology; biochemical methodology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 413 and MBIOS 513.
Molecular BioScience^General Biochemistry General Biochemistry 3 Metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, bioenergetics; photosynthesis; control of metabolic processes. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 414 and MBIOS 514. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Molecular BioScience^Human Genetics Human Genetics 3 Exploration of individual and population genetics leading to critical discussion of current social, medical, and scientific issues.
Molecular BioScience^Microbial Genetics Microbial Genetics 3 Genetics of bacteria, bacteriophages and plasmids; regulation of gene expression; genetic manipulation of microorganisms.
Molecular BioScience^Combined Immunology and Virology Laboratory Combined Immunology and Virology Laboratory 3 Fundamental principles in immunology including the cultivation and characterization of viruses using laboratory techniques.
Molecular BioScience^Immunology Immunology 3 Principles of basic immunology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 440 and MBIOS 540.
Molecular BioScience^General Virology General Virology 3 The biology of bacterial, animal, and plant viruses. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 442 and MBIOS 542.
Molecular BioScience^Epidemiology Epidemiology 3 Study of diseases in human populations; concepts of etiology, disease rates, susceptibility and risk factors, screening for disease, and prevention. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Molecular BioScience^Microbial Physiology Microbial Physiology 3 Basic microbial physiology and its relevance to the processes of applied microbiology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 450 and 550.
Molecular BioScience^Biochemistry Laboratory Biochemistry Laboratory 3 Techniques related to the structural and functional analysis of macromolecules including proteins, lipids and carbohydrates.
Molecular BioScience^Principles of Biophysical Chemistry Principles of Biophysical Chemistry 3 Biochemical reactions and processes, molecular recognition, coupled reactions, enzyme catalysis, analysis of macromolecular structure by electrophoresis, sedimentation, viscosity, and spectroscopy.
Molecular BioScience^Physical Biochemistry Physical Biochemistry 3 Techniques for the study of biological structure and function; spectroscopy, magnetic resonance, diffusion, sedimentation, electron microscopy, diffraction and scattering. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 466 and MBIOS 566.
Molecular BioScience^Bioinformatics Bioinformatics 3 Computer analysis of protein and nucleic acid sequences, functional genomics and proteomics data; modeling biological networks and pathways. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 478 and MBIOS 578.
Molecular BioScience^Special Topics in Molecular Biology Special Topics in Molecular Biology V 1-2
Molecular BioScience^Senior Project in Molecular Biosciences Senior Project in Molecular Biosciences 3 Written paper and seminar presentation on laboratory research project.
Molecular BioScience^Internship Training Internship Training V 1-4
Molecular BioScience^Directed Research Directed Research V 1-4
Molecular BioScience^Cell Biology Cell Biology 3 Cellular structure and function; membrane biochemistry and transport; cell-cell communication; regulation of cell cycle and apoptosis; cell signaling; cancer biology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 401 and MBIOS 501.
Molecular BioScience^Advanced Molecular Biology I Advanced Molecular Biology I 3 DNA replication and recombination in prokaryotes and eukaryotes; recombinant DNA methods and host/vector systems; genome analysis; transgenic organisms.
Molecular BioScience^Advanced Molecular Biology II Advanced Molecular Biology II 3 Gene expression and regulation in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, including transcription, RNA processing, and translation; chromatin structure; DNA repair.
Molecular BioScience^Cell Biology of Disease Cell Biology of Disease 3 Discussion of human diseases characterized by cell biological defects, using popular press and research articles as a source of information. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 405 and 505. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Molecular BioScience^Critical Analysis of Scientific Literature Critical Analysis of Scientific Literature 2 Dissection and discussion of current molecular bioscience papers to foster development of critical reading of primary literature.
Molecular BioScience^Quantitative Approaches in Molecular Biosciences Quantitative Approaches in Molecular Biosciences 2 Quantitative methods and techniques using examples from the current molecular biosciences primary literature.
Molecular BioScience^General Biochemistry General Biochemistry 3 Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids and biological membranes; principles of enzymology; biochemical methodology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 413 and MBIOS 513.
Molecular BioScience^General Biochemistry General Biochemistry 3 Metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, bioenergetics; photosynthesis; control of metabolic processes. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 414 and MBIOS 514. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Molecular BioScience^Molecular and Cellular Reproduction Molecular and Cellular Reproduction 3 State of the art concepts of the molecular, cellular, and physiological aspects of mammalian reproduction. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Molecular BioScience^Selected Topics in Cell Biology Selected Topics in Cell Biology 1 Selected topics in cell biology using current literature.
Molecular BioScience^Immunology Immunology 3 Principles of basic immunology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 440 and MBIOS 540.
Molecular BioScience^Research Seminar Research Seminar 1
Molecular BioScience^General Virology General Virology 3 The biology of bacterial, animal, and plant viruses. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 442 and MBIOS 542.
Molecular BioScience^Selected Topics in Immunology & Virology Selected Topics in Immunology & Virology 1
Molecular BioScience^Seminar in Immunology Seminar in Immunology 1
Molecular BioScience^Microbial Physiology Microbial Physiology 3 Basic microbial physiology and its relevance to the processes of applied microbiology. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 450 and 550.
Molecular BioScience^Biochemical Signaling in Plants, Animals and Microorganisms Biochemical Signaling in Plants, Animals and Microorganisms 3 New research on intra and extra cellular biochemical signaling, including communication in plants and hormone action in animals. .
Molecular BioScience^Physical Biochemistry Physical Biochemistry 3 Techniques for the study of biological structure and function; spectroscopy, magnetic resonance, diffusion, sedimentation, electron microscopy, diffraction and scattering. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 466 and MBIOS 566.
Molecular BioScience^Advanced Topics in Molecular Biosciences Advanced Topics in Molecular Biosciences V 1-3
Molecular BioScience^Protein Biotechnology Protein Biotechnology 3 Biotechnology related to the isolation, modification and large scale commercial production, patenting and marketing of useful recombinant proteins and products. .
Molecular BioScience^Bioinformatics Bioinformatics 3 Computer analysis of protein and nucleic acid sequences, functional genomics and proteomics data; modeling biological networks and pathways. Credit not granted for both MBIOS 478 and MBIOS 578.
Molecular BioScience^Molecular Biosciences Seminar Molecular Biosciences Seminar 1
Molecular BioScience^Science Information Literacy Science Information Literacy 2 Efficient methods to locate and effectively use a wide variety of information resources that will be useful in the work world.
Molecular BioScience^Professional Skills Seminar Professional Skills Seminar 1 Covers many aspects of professionalism, including professional behavior, professional dress, and professional sensitivity in social settings.
Molecular BioScience^Medical Genetics Medical Genetics 3 The mechanisms of human heredity and how these mechanisms can influence human health.
Molecular BioScience^Research Proposal Research Proposal 2
Sociology^Introduction to Sociology Introduction to Sociology 3 Introduction to the discipline of sociology: Concepts and methods used in the inquiry into the social world.
Sociology^Social Problems Social Problems 3 The structure of social institutions and cultural factors that constitute threats to society .
Sociology^Sociology of Sport Sociology of Sport 3 Sociological study of sport in America.
Sociology^Perspectives on Disability Perspectives on Disability 3 Historical, international, socioeconomic, ethical and personal perspectives on disability; individual choices, societal values, and social responsibility.
Sociology^The Sociology of Sex, Relationships, and Marriage The Sociology of Sex, Relationships, and Marriage 3 Social and personal factors in mate selection; the sociology of sexuality; development of gender roles; and intimate relationships and marriage. .
Sociology^Intersections of Race, Class, Gender and Sexuality Intersections of Race, Class, Gender and Sexuality 3 Intersections between race, class and gender through case studies; experiences in interdisciplinary methods. .
Sociology^Contemporary Masculinity and Men's Issues Contemporary Masculinity and Men's Issues 3 Analysis of the development of masculinity in its biological and cultural forms. .
Sociology^Development of Social Theory Development of Social Theory 3 Foundations of sociological theory; introduction to original works of early social theorists.
Sociology^Research Methods in Sociology Research Methods in Sociology 3 Designing, conducting, and reporting social research.
Sociology^Introduction to Social Research Introduction to Social Research 3 Methods of collecting data; surveys, experiments, field observations; organization and interpretation of data; reading social research findings.
Sociology^Quantitative Techniques in Sociology I Quantitative Techniques in Sociology I 4 Levels of measurement; measures of central tendency, dispersion and association; normal curve, statistical inference; logic of quantitative comparison and decision making.
Sociology^Population, Resources, and the Future Population, Resources, and the Future 3 Effects of population on resource depletion, environmental deterioration, social and economic structure; zero population growth prospects; limits to growth debate.
Sociology^Society and Environment Society and Environment 3 Society-environment relations, including environmental attitudes and behavior; the environmental movement and environmental politics and policy-making.
Sociology^Science, Power and Human Values Science, Power and Human Values 3 Recent developments in the sociological study of science and scientific knowledge through cultural, commercial, and political perspectives.
Sociology^Issues in Global Human Health Issues in Global Human Health 3 Human populations and life expectancies; inequity across global regions.
Sociology^Social Inequality Social Inequality 3 Causes and consequences of social inequality in contemporary America.
Sociology^Sociology of Religion Sociology of Religion 3 Relation between religious and other institutions of societies, particularly in Europe and North America.
Sociology^Urban Poverty Urban Poverty 3 Historical context and current debates on US urban poverty including public policy, employment and education, and gender, race, and ethnicity.
Sociology^Sociology of Professions and Occupations Sociology of Professions and Occupations 3 Social organization of work in America including historical and contemporary trends, bureaucracy, gender/racial inequality, technological affects, work/family relations.
Sociology^Sociology of Education Sociology of Education 3 Examination of how educational institutions are influenced by other social forces, how school practices affect individual outcomes and how race/class/gender shape educational opportunity.
Sociology^Sociology of Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration Sociology of Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration 3 Racial and ethnic categories and experiences of specific racial, ethnic, and immigrant groups.
Sociology^Social Psychology Social Psychology 3 Attitude changes, conformity, interpersonal relations, groups and social influences explored to give a coherent view of social psychology. .
Sociology^The Family The Family 3 Family system and its interaction patterns; family formation and dissolution; marital and partner relations, divorce, sexuality, parenting, work-family balance. .
Sociology^Sociology of Aging and the Life Course Sociology of Aging and the Life Course 3 Aging as a lifelong process; behavior, personality competencies, social relations changes over the life course; historical, social structural, demographics, contextual influences. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Sociology^Social Deviance Social Deviance 3 A survey of the sociology of deviance.
Sociology^Criminology Criminology 3 Crime measurement, the correlates of crime, and specific types of crime such as white-collar and drug crime.
Sociology^Juvenile Delinquency Juvenile Delinquency 3 Sociological perspectives on delinquency; delinquent gangs and subcultures; delinquency causation and control; law and its enforcement: juvenile justice and corrections.
Sociology^Juvenile Justice and Corrections Juvenile Justice and Corrections 3 History, philosophy, legal process, performance, and outcomes of the juvenile justice and corrections systems. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Sociology^Sociological Theories of Addictive Behavior Sociological Theories of Addictive Behavior 3 Alcohol use and abuse in the context of other legal and illegal substances focusing on theories and drug policies.
Sociology^The Sociology of Film The Sociology of Film 3 The social, economic, and political factors that influence film production and the impact of films on American culture.
Sociology^Media, Culture, and Society Media, Culture, and Society 3 The production of popular culture by media organizations and its effects on society.
Sociology^Aspects of Sustainable Development Aspects of Sustainable Development 3 Ecological, economical, and sociological aspects of sustainable development. .
Sociology^Sociology of Gender Sociology of Gender 3 Construction and maintenance of gender and gender inequality in American society. .
Sociology^Gender and Work Gender and Work 3 Gender and inequality at work including occupational segregation, wage inequality and balancing work and family. .
Sociology^Special Topics in Sociology Special Topics in Sociology V 1-3
Sociology^Globalization Globalization 3 Structural foundations of global social change; theories of intersocietal interactions and interdependencies.
Sociology^Human Issues in International Development Human Issues in International Development 3 Interdisciplinary analysis of complex interaction between tradition and modernity in Third World societies. .
Sociology^Quantitative Techniques in Sociology II Quantitative Techniques in Sociology II 3 Probability theory, sampling distributions, random variables, matrix approaches to statistical techniques, calculus for statistics and computer applications.
Sociology^Society and Technology Society and Technology 3 Role of technology in social evolution; social impacts and shaping of technology.
Sociology^Urbanization and Community Organization Urbanization and Community Organization 3 Organization, function, change, development, and decline of communities; applications emphasizing rural or urban settings.
Sociology^Corrections Corrections 3 History, facilities, processes, strategies for the correction and punishment of offenders, analysis of concepts of prevention and control of crime.
Sociology^Addictive Behavior Across the Demographic Spectrum Addictive Behavior Across the Demographic Spectrum 3 Overview of social, cultural and historical perspectives on dealing with addictive behavior. .
Sociology^Collective Behavior and Social Movements Collective Behavior and Social Movements 3 Processes of collective behavior and social movements in historical and contemporary societies.
Sociology^Lesbian and Gay Studies Lesbian and Gay Studies 3 Interdisciplinary exploration of issues related to gender and sexuality, explored transhistorically and cross-culturally, including race, class and age differences. .
Sociology^Advanced Special Topics Advanced Special Topics V 1-3
Sociology^Internship Capstone Internship Capstone 3 Self-initiated supervised work experience in an approved campus or community setting.
Sociology^Capstone - From Theory to Practice: The Sociology of Service Capstone - From Theory to Practice: The Sociology of Service 3 Service learning course connecting theoretical solutions to social problems with service in community organizations.
Sociology^Capstone Research Practicum Capstone Research Practicum 3 Hands-on experience in selection of social problem, review of literature, identifying data sources, developing methodology and reporting results.
Sociology^Research Assistantship Research Assistantship 3
Sociology^Development of Social Theory Development of Social Theory 3 Examination of the foundations of social theory.
Sociology^Data Management Data Management 3 Core concepts and procedures regularly used in the quantitative analysis of sociological data.
Sociology^Seminar in Contemporary Sociological Theory Seminar in Contemporary Sociological Theory 3 Recent developments in sociological theory, analysis, application and appraisal of specific theoretical systems.
Sociology^International Development and Human Resources International Development and Human Resources 3 History of and recent changes in international development emphasizing anthropological perspectives. .
Sociology^Research Methods in Sociology Research Methods in Sociology 3 Methodology of social research at the professional level.
Sociology^Regression Models Regression Models 3 Simple and multiple regression, structural equation models, nonlinear applications, applications for discrete dependent variables.
Sociology^Advanced Sociological Methodology Advanced Sociological Methodology 3
Sociology^Qualitative Methods Practicum Qualitative Methods Practicum 3 Introduction to qualitative research methods as used in social sciences; epistemological underpinnings and empirical techniques.
Sociology^Practicum in Survey Research Practicum in Survey Research 3 Practical experience in design and implementation of telephone and mail surveys; participation in all aspects of conducting a survey.
Sociology^Experimental Methods Experimental Methods 3
Sociology^Demography Demography 3 Population studies; causes, effects, and measurement of changes in fertility, mortality, and migration; population estimation and projection.
Sociology^Human Ecology Human Ecology 3 Ecosystem context of human life; change viewed ecologically; sociological use and misuse of ecological concepts; issues in theory and research.
Sociology^Environmental Sociology Environmental Sociology 3 Societal-environmental interactions; impacts of human societies on the physical environment; environmental impacts on human behavior and social organization.
Sociology^Technology and Society Technology and Society 3 Analysis of sociotechnical systems; effects of technology on society; the social shaping of technologies and their environmental impacts.
Sociology^Special Topics in Environmental Sociology Special Topics in Environmental Sociology V 1 to 3
Sociology^Social Stratification: Class, Race and Gender Inequalities Social Stratification: Class, Race and Gender Inequalities 3 Theoretical and empirical research in both classic stratification literature and recent scholarship on class, race/ethnicity and gender.
Sociology^Sociology of Community Sociology of Community 3 Community stability and change: interaction processes; decision making; societal linkages; effects on well-being.
Sociology^Social Organization and the Family Social Organization and the Family 3 The family as a social institution; principles of social organization applied to family relationships; macro-level analyses of family structure.
Sociology^Social Psychology of the Family Social Psychology of the Family 3 The family as an interacting group; social psychological theories and research applied to family relationships; effects of families on individuals.
Sociology^Sociology of Aging and the Life Course Sociology of Aging and the Life Course 3 Theory and research on the changes individuals undergo over the life course; influences of history, social structure, agency and social relations on lives.
Sociology^Labor Market Inequality Labor Market Inequality 3 Overview of research on the causes and consequences of inequality in U.S. work organizations.
Sociology^Sociology of Race Relations Sociology of Race Relations 3 Analysis of race/ethnic relations; historical and current theoretical explanations of race/ethnic relations.
Sociology^Social Movements Social Movements 3 Theories and methods in social movement studies.
Sociology^Special Topics in Sociology Special Topics in Sociology 3
Sociology^The Sociology Profession The Sociology Profession 1
Sociology^Special Topics in Sociology Special Topics in Sociology 3
Sociology^Special Topics in Sociology Special Topics in Sociology V 1-3
Material Science^Current Topics in Materials Science Current Topics in Materials Science V 1-3
Material Science^Advanced Materials Science Advanced Materials Science 3 Broad baseline in materials science including relationships between structure and properties. .
Material Science^Biomaterials Biomaterials 3 Overview of the different types of materials used in biomedical applications such as implants and medical devices. Credit not granted for both MSE 406 and MSE 506. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Material Science^Crystal Plasticity Crystal Plasticity 3 Dislocation theory; slip; climb; mechanical properties of polycrystalline materials and application to important deformation processes. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Material Science^Phase Transformations Phase Transformations 3 Thermodynamics, nucleation, interface motion, mechanisms and kinetics of chemical reactions between solid metals and their environment. .
Material Science^Statistics of Microstructures Statistics of Microstructures 3 Stereology, orientation and spatial distributions, percolation, measurement techniques and application to modeling of microstructures. .
Material Science^Microscopic Analysis of Solid Surfaces Microscopic Analysis of Solid Surfaces 3 Modern spectroscopic methods for microscopic analysis of solid surfaces; emphasizes electron, ion, laser, and x-ray techniques.
Material Science^Seminar in Materials Science Seminar in Materials Science 1
Geology^Introduction to Geology Introduction to Geology 4 Introductory physical geology for non-science majors; emphasis on western US. Credit not granted for more than one of GEOLOGY 101, 102, 180.
Geology^Physical Geology Physical Geology 4 Modern concepts of earth science; mineral rock, resource, and map study. Field trip required. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 101 and 102.
Geology^Other Worlds: Comparative Planetology of our Solar System Other Worlds: Comparative Planetology of our Solar System 3 Study of the geological processes and environments on planets and moons of our solar system.
Geology^Earth's History and Evolution Earth's History and Evolution 4 Introduction to earth's history and evolution through observations, data collection and analysis, readings and writing exercises. Two field trips required.
Geology^Field Trip Field Trip 1
Geology^Introductory Oceanography Introductory Oceanography 3 Interdisciplinary study of ocean systems: marine geology, chemistry, physics and biology; oceans' influence on climate and response to human activity.
Geology^Introduction to Astrobiology Introduction to Astrobiology 3 Origins, distribution, evolution and future of life in the universe.
Geology^Environmental Geology Environmental Geology 3 Geological hazards and geologic problems associated with human activities. Optional field trip.
Geology^Geology Field Camp Geology Field Camp 3 Introduction to geologic field methods; basic geologic mapping.
Geology^Water and the Earth Water and the Earth 3 Global hydrologic cycle, including rivers and weathering, groundwater, rainwater and the atmosphere, oceans, human impacts. Field research required.
Geology^Sedimentary Petrology and Sedimentation Sedimentary Petrology and Sedimentation 3 Sedimentary rock composition and origins applying fundamental principles of sedimentology. Field trip required.
Geology^Geology of the Pacific Northwest Geology of the Pacific Northwest 3 Physical geology of the Pacific Northwest focusing on geological processes important in its evolution. Field trips required. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 322 and 323.
Geology^Geology of the Pacific Northwest Geology of the Pacific Northwest 4 Physical geology of the Pacific Northwest focusing on geological processes important to its evolution. Field trips required. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 322 and 323.
Geology^Geologic Structures Geologic Structures 4 Basic understanding and techniques of working in deformed rocks in mountain belts. Field trip required.
Geology^Mineralogy and Crystallography Mineralogy and Crystallography 4 Composition, physical properties, structure, crystallography, identification, and origin of minerals. Field trip required.
Geology^Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology 4 Origin, evolution, and eruption of magmas and crustal rocks; mineralogy, textures and chemical composition of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Field trips required.
Geology^Living on the Edge: Global Climate Change and Earth History Living on the Edge: Global Climate Change and Earth History 3 Global earth system: ocean, earth, atmosphere, biosphere, and cryosphere; human impact on the climate system; climate change data predictions; debates.
Geology^Geophysics Geophysics 4 Theory and application of geophysical methods for hydrology, environmental, engineering, exploration, and structural geology; review of techniques. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Geology^Field Geology Field Geology 3 Advanced field problems and methods; data interpretation and report preparation. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Astrobiology Astrobiology 3 Origin, evolution, distribution and future of life in the universe; fundamental concepts of life and habitable environments on Earth and other planetary bodies with in and outside of the solar system. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 445 and GEOLOGY 545. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Geology^Volcanology Volcanology 3 Volcanic process, eruption mechanisms, volcanic deposits, hazard assessment. Field trip required. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 467 and GEOLOGY 567. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Introduction to Economic Geology Introduction to Economic Geology 3 Genesis, evolution and tectonic setting of ore deposits combining theory, description, and detailed hand specimen analysis. Field trip to major mining districts. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Groundwater Groundwater 3 Introduction to groundwater occurrence, movement, quality, and resource management, emphasizing physical and biogeochemical principles. Field trip required. .
Geology^Introductory Geochemistry Introductory Geochemistry 3 The chemistry of Earth materials and processes.
Geology^Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research V 1-3
Geology^Geophysics Geophysics 4 Theory and application of geophysical methods for hydrology, environmental, engineering, exploration, and structural geology; review of techniques. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Geology^Advanced Topics in Sedimentology Advanced Topics in Sedimentology 3
Geology^Clastic Depositional Systems Clastic Depositional Systems 3 Clastic sedimentary environments; architectural elements and facies analysis. Field trip required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Advanced Topics in Stratigraphy Advanced Topics in Stratigraphy 3
Geology^Carbonate Depositional Systems Carbonate Depositional Systems 3 Modern carbonate environments and processes; ancient carbonate rock sequences; carbonate platform-to-basin transition; diagenesis of carbonate rocks. Field trip required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Orogenic Systems I Orogenic Systems I 3 Field-base course examines tetonic processes active in the northern Cordillera. Field trip required and final research paper. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Tectonics Tectonics 3 Nature and origin of the Earth's major tectonic features. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Structural Analysis Structural Analysis 3 Structural analysis of complexly deformed rocks in orogenic belts. Field trip required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Astrobiology Astrobiology 3 Origin, evolution, distribution and future of life in the universe; fundamental concepts of life and habitable environments on Earth and other planetary bodies with in and outside of the solar system. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 445 and GEOLOGY 545. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Geology^Advanced Mineralogy Advanced Mineralogy 3 Elements of crystal chemistry and crystal physics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Analytical Methods in Earth Sciences Analytical Methods in Earth Sciences 3 Theory and pratical experience in EMPA, XRD, XRF, and ICPMS analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Advanced Igneous Petrology Advanced Igneous Petrology 3 Origin, evolution, and tectonic significance of igneous rocks. Field trip required. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Watershed Biogeochemistry Watershed Biogeochemistry 3 Sources, transformations, fates and impacts of biogeochemically important compounds as they move downstream through watersheds to the coastal zone.
Geology^Volcanology Volcanology 3 Volcanic process, eruption mechanisms, volcanic deposits, hazard assessment. Field trip required. Credit not granted for both GEOLOGY 467 and GEOLOGY 567. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Groundwater Geobiology Groundwater Geobiology 3 Interaction of groundwater geology and the environment including microbial populations with emphasis on microbial transport in the sub-surface and bioremediation approaches.
Geology^Groundwater Geochemistry Groundwater Geochemistry V 2-4
Geology^Radiogenic Isotopes and Geochronology Radiogenic Isotopes and Geochronology 3 Radiogenic isotopes and their uses as chronometers and as tracers of earth evolution and differentiation. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Stable Isotope Geochemistry Stable Isotope Geochemistry 3 Principles and applications of isotope geochemistry in the geological sciences. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Geology^Methods in Radiogenic Isotope Geochemistry Methods in Radiogenic Isotope Geochemistry 3 Laboratory-based course in modern analytical methods in radiogenic isotope geochemistry.
Geology^Advanced Topics in Geology Advanced Topics in Geology V 1-4
Geology^Advanced Topics in Geology Advanced Topics in Geology V 1-4
Geology^Advanced Topics in Geology Advanced Topics in Geology V 1-4
Physics^General Physics General Physics 4  Algebra/trigonometry-based physics; topics in mechanics, wave phenomena, temperature, and heat; oriented toward non-physical science majors. Credit not granted for more than one of PHYSICS 101, 201, or 205.
Physics^General Physics General Physics 4 Algebra/trigonometry-based physics; topics in electricity, magnetism, optical phenomena, relativity, and quantum theory; oriented toward non-physical science majors. Credit not granted for more than one of PHYSICS 102, 202, or 206.
Physics^Problem Solving for Physics Problem Solving for Physics 1 Small class environment for students who desire focused attention on problem solving skills as applied to PHYSICS 101 materials.
Physics^Problem Solving for Physics Problem Solving for Physics 1 Small class environment for students who desire focused attention on problem solving skills as applied to PHYSICS 102 materials.
Physics^Physics and Your World Physics and Your World 3 Survey of physics as found in everyday phenomena; including many hands-on activities and home experiments.
Physics^First-Year Seminar I First-Year Seminar I 1 Faculty will present current research interests and opportunities in physics; questions and discussion. Taught annually each fall.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers I Physics for Scientists and Engineers I 4 Calculus-based physics; topics in motion and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies, vibrations, wave phenomena, and the laws of thermodynamics. Credit not granted for more than one of PHYSICS 101, 201, or 205.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers II Physics for Scientists and Engineers II 4 Calculus-based physics, topics in electricity, magnetism, electromagnetics, D/C and A/C circuits, optics, reflection, refraction, interference, diffraction, polarization. Credit not granted for more than one of PHYSICS 102, 202, or 206.
Physics^Problem Solving for Physics Problem Solving for Physics 1 Small class environment for students who desire focused attention on problem solving skills as applied to PHYSICS 201 materials.
Physics^Problem Solving for Physics Problem Solving for Physics 1 Small class environment for students who desire focused attention on problem solving skills as applied to PHYSICS 202 materials.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers I - Honors Physics for Scientists and Engineers I - Honors 5 Calculus-based physics, honors section; mechanics, sound, and thermodynamics. Credit not granted for more than one of PHYSICS 101, 201, or 205.
Physics^Physics for Scientists and Engineers II - Honors Physics for Scientists and Engineers II - Honors 5 Calculus-based physics, honors section; electricity, magnetism, light, topics in modern physics. Credit not granted for more than one of PHYSICS 102, 202, or 206.
Physics^Modern Physics I Modern Physics I 3 Quantum and relativity theories with applications to atomic, solid state, nuclear and elementary particle physics.
Physics^Modern Physics II Modern Physics II 3 Continuation of PHYSICS 303.
Physics^Mechanics Mechanics 3 Particle motion in one-, two-, and three-dimensions; motions of systems of particles; rigid body motion; Lagrange's equations.
Physics^Thermal Physics Thermal Physics 3 Thermal behavior of systems; energy and entropy; equations of state; changes of phase; elements of continuum and statistical approaches.
Physics^Electricity and Magnetism I Electricity and Magnetism I 3 Electrostatic fields, magnetic fields, dielectric and magnetic media.
Physics^Electricity and Magnetism II Electricity and Magnetism II 3 Continuation of PHYSICS 341. Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic waves, special relativity.
Physics^Physics and Society Physics and Society 3 Interactions of physics with society; energy; air and water pollution; recycling; communications and computers; physics and war; physics and art.
Physics^Electronics Electronics 3 Laboratory construction and investigation of electronic circuits employed in research instruments.
Physics^Quantum Physics Laboratory Quantum Physics Laboratory 3
Physics^Optics Optics 3 Polarization, interference, coherence, and diffraction phenomena of the electromagnetic spectrum; optics of solids; laser resonators; gaussian beams; ABCD matrices.
Physics^Introduction to Quantum Mechanics Introduction to Quantum Mechanics 3 Introduction to quantum theory with applications to atomic physics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Introduction to Atomic and Molecular Physics Introduction to Atomic and Molecular Physics 3 Introduction to atomic and molecular physics; spectroscopy.
Physics^Introduction to Solid State and Materials Physics Introduction to Solid State and Materials Physics 3 Introduction to the physics of solids; crystal structures, lattice vibrations, and electron theory. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Introductory Nuclear Physics Introductory Nuclear Physics 3 Nuclear systematics, apparatus of nuclear research, radioactivity, nuclear-atomic interactions, nuclear reactions and scattering; introductory particle physics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Biological Physics Biological Physics 3 Fundamental physics and thermodynamics of the cell; mechanics of biomolecular machines. Credit not granted for both PHYSICS 466 and PHYSICS 566. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Physics^Advanced Topics Advanced Topics V 1-3
Physics^Undergraduate Thesis Undergraduate Thesis 1 Preliminary thesis draft of a laboratory or library research experience, oral presentation, and final draft.
Physics^Graduate Seminar Graduate Seminar 1 Introduction to graduate and interdisciplinary research.
Physics^Optoelectronics Lab I Optoelectronics Lab I 1
Physics^Optoelectronics Lab II Optoelectronics Lab II V 1 to 3
Physics^Classical Mechanics I Classical Mechanics I 3 Laws of motion as developed by Newton, d'Alembert, Lagrange, and Hamilton; dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Classical Mechanics II Classical Mechanics II 3 Continuation of PHYSICS 521. Classical mechanics of liquids and deformable solids; stress, deformation and strain, flow, oscillations and waves.
Physics^Thermal and Statistical Physics I Thermal and Statistical Physics I 3 Thermodynamic laws and potentials, kinetic theory, hydrodynamics and transport coefficients; introduction to statistical mechanics, ensembles, partition functions.
Physics^Thermal and Statistical Physics II Thermal and Statistical Physics II 3 Phase transitions and critical phenomena, Ginzburg-Landau theory, Bose-Einstein condensation, superfluids, Fermi systems, low-temperature expansions. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Electromagnetic Theory Electromagnetic Theory 3 Special relativity and the classical electromagnetic field; emission, propagation, and absorption of electromagnetic waves. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Electrodynamics Electrodynamics 3 Interaction of matter and electromagnetic radiation; classical and quantum electrodynamics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Nonlinear Optics Nonlinear Optics 3 Nonlinear wave propagation theory applied to several nonlinear-optical phenomena; experimental techniques that probe a material's nonlinearity.
Physics^Quantum Electronics Quantum Electronics 3 The physics of lasers and of coherent optical radiation generation and propagation.
Physics^Quantum Theory I Quantum Theory I 3 Introduction to quantum theory; physical and mathematical foundations; application to atomic systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Quantum Theory II Quantum Theory II 3 Symmetry and invariance; angular momentum theory; approximation methods. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Quantum Theory III Quantum Theory III 3 Scattering theory; relativistic wave mechanics; quantum field theory. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Atomic and Molecular Physics Atomic and Molecular Physics 3 Physics of atoms and molecules using quantum theory. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Physics of the Solid State Physics of the Solid State 3 Lattice vibrations and defects; ionic and electronic conductivities; band theory; magnetic properties; luminescence. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Biological Physics Biological Physics 3 Fundamental physics and thermodynamics of the cell; mechanics of biomolecular machines. Credit not granted for both PHYSICS 466 and PHYSICS 566. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Physics^Methods of Theoretical Physics Methods of Theoretical Physics 3 Mathematical methods for theoretical physics; linear algebra, tensor analysis, complex variables, differential equations, integral equations, variational calculus, and group theory. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Physics^Advanced Solid State Physics Advanced Solid State Physics 3 Quantum theory of solids; Green's functions, correlation functions and other field-theoretic methods; magnetism, superconductivity and transport properties.
Physics^Advanced Topics Advanced Topics 3
Physics^Wave Propagation Seminar Wave Propagation Seminar 2
Physics^Teaching Undergraduate Physics Laboratories Teaching Undergraduate Physics Laboratories 1
Physics^Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination V 1-18
Business Law^Law and the Legal Environment of Business Law and the Legal Environment of Business 3 Fundamentals of business law; the legal system, legal reasoning, public, commercial, managerial and property law, and government regulation.
Business Law^Managerial Law Managerial Law 3 Law of agency, partnerships, limited liability companies and corporations; and securities regulation.
Business Law^Business Law Internship Business Law Internship V 2-15
Business Law^Business Law and Ethics Business Law and Ethics 3 Legal process and reasoning; commercial, managerial, and employment law; government regulations; contracts, torts, crimes; ethical conflicts and ethical decision making.
Business Law^Business Law II Business Law II 3 Law of partnerships, corporations, securities regulations, negotiable instruments, secured transactions, property, insurance and bankruptcy; government regulation of businesses and professions.
Education^Philosophy of Education Philosophy of Education 3 Development of American educational philosophy.
Education^Values and Ethics for Educational Leaders Values and Ethics for Educational Leaders 3 Study of ethical theories, the moral dilemmas of public schooling, and the skills of ethical reasoning; professional code of ethics.
Education^Social Context of Education Social Context of Education 2 The interpretation of social context issues including historical, legal and cultural factors as these influence policies and practice in education.
Education^Social Foundations of Education Social Foundations of Education 3 Educational adaptations to the economic and social trends and forces.
Education^Improvement of Instruction Improvement of Instruction 3 Analysis and evaluation of instructional models with emphasis on information processing; implications for changing teaching style.
Education^Leadership Studies for Social Justice Leadership Studies for Social Justice 3 Leadership theories and approaches including present educational problems, leadership theories, and perspectives.
Education^Organizational Behavior Organizational Behavior 3 Human behavior within various social and cultural organizational settings.
Education^Basic Principles of Curriculum Design Basic Principles of Curriculum Design V 2-3 The application of theoretical concepts and approaches in the planning and design of curricula.
Education^Curriculum Implementation Curriculum Implementation 3 Research and practice; innovation and change in curricular organization emphasizing implementation.
Education^Instructional and Curricular Leadership Instructional and Curricular Leadership V 2-3 Theory, research, and practice of providing instructional and curricular leadership in schools and other educational settings.
Education^Media Literacy and Educational Technology Media Literacy and Educational Technology 3 Relates research and theory of media literacy to instructional resources and current leadership practices; problems of planning and administering programs.
Education^Seminar in Curriculum and Instruction Seminar in Curriculum and Instruction V 2-3 Contemporary issues, analyses and developments of educational programs.
Education^Topics in Education Topics in Education V 1-4
Education^Topics in Education Topics in Education V 1-4
Education^Introduction to Qualitative Research in Education Introduction to Qualitative Research in Education 3 Introduction to the theory and methods of qualitative research; field relations, data collections, data analysis, hypothesis development, and theory generation.
Education^Advanced Qualitative Research in Education Advanced Qualitative Research in Education 3 Advanced theory and methods of qualitative research; theoretical foundations, data collection and analysis, and reporting.
Education^Special Topics in Qualitative Research in Education Special Topics in Qualitative Research in Education V 1-3
Education^Applied Research for Educational Leaders Applied Research for Educational Leaders 3 Integrates the principles, skills, and tools of research into the leadership and managerial practices of educational leaders.
Education^Student Personnel Services in Higher Education Student Personnel Services in Higher Education V 2-3 Philosophy, structure, functions, and organization of student affairs administration.
Education^Introduction to College Student Development Introduction to College Student Development 3 Student development theory, related research and the application of theory to practice in student affairs work.
Education^Professional Issues in Student Affairs Administration Professional Issues in Student Affairs Administration 3 The organization, programs and professional issues related to selected student affairs programs and units.
Education^Research in College Student Development Research in College Student Development 3 Critique, understand, and apply college social identity models as they relate to teaching, advising, and working with diverse student populations.
Education^Practicum in Higher Education Practicum in Higher Education 3 Selected supervised experiences in general higher education and student affairs settings provide for the investigation/application of theory/methods gained through formal course work.
Education^Diversity in Higher Education Diversity in Higher Education 3 Reflection on experience and examination of the theory of practice or organizational leadership in the context of diversity.
Education^Finance and Budgeting in Higher Education Finance and Budgeting in Higher Education 3 Exposes students to the fundamentals of higher education budgeting and finance.
Education^Community and Technical Colleges Community and Technical Colleges 3 For teachers and administrators. Development and function of community and technical colleges.
Education^College Teaching College Teaching 3 Concepts, principles, issues, and procedures in college curriculum development, and college teaching.
Education^History of Higher Education History of Higher Education 3 History, philosophy, objectives, and issues of colleges and universities as social institutions.
Education^Issues in Higher Education Issues in Higher Education 3 Selected contemporary issues in higher education.
Education^Higher Education Law and Ethics Higher Education Law and Ethics 3 Legal and ethical aspects of higher education with special reference to administrators, faculty, and students in higher education institutions.
Education^Administration of Higher Education Administration of Higher Education 3 Organization, administration and leadership of universities, colleges, and community colleges.
Education^School Organization and Administration School Organization and Administration 3 Readings and discussions on the theories and practices of school organization and administration. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Education^Politics in Education Politics in Education 3 Examining the intrapersonal, organizational politics and political dilemma, particularly as they pertain to marginalized groups.
Education^Policy Formation and Analysis in Education Policy Formation and Analysis in Education 3 Political and organizational policy formation processes in educational organizations; policy analysis in education.
Education^Community and Communications Community and Communications 3 Social, political, and economic relationships between education and the community; methods of public polling and campaign strategy techniques.
Education^Human Resource Management Human Resource Management 3 Human relations in education; problems involved and practical solutions considered.
Education^Financial Management in Education Financial Management in Education 3 Economics and financing of education; financial planning, budget development, investment analysis, bonding, cost effectiveness; current trends in educational finance. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Education^Seminar in School Administration Seminar in School Administration V 1-6
Education^The Law and Education The Law and Education 3 Fundamental legal principles within which public education functions; applicable school codes of Washington and other states; review important court cases.
Education^Leadership Development Seminar Leadership Development Seminar 3 Improving knowledge and skills in strategic planning, decision making, leadership issues, conflict, motivation, staff development, productivity, and stress.
Education^Preparing Grant Proposals Preparing Grant Proposals 3 Identification of funding sources; analysis, evaluation, and production of grant proposals.
Astronomy^Astronomy Astronomy 4 Overview of the solar system, stars, galaxies, cosmology, and the history of astronomy. Includes a lab component with occasional evening meetings. Credit not granted for both ASTRONOM 135 and 150.
Astronomy^Planets and Planetary Systems Planets and Planetary Systems 3 Formation and dynamics of planetary systems; major planets: interiors, surfaces, atmospheres; minor planets: moons, asteroids, comets; science missions; extrasolar planets.
Astronomy^Science and the Universe Science and the Universe 3 Basic structure and history of science and science reasoning with emphasis on astronomy, observational practice, and data analysis. Credit not granted for both ASTRONOM 135 and 150.
Astronomy^Principles of Astronomy Principles of Astronomy 3 Planets, the sun, stars, and galaxies; current topics in astrophysics and planetary research.
Astronomy^The Night Sky The Night Sky 1 Star names, magnitude scales, constellation identification, astronomical coordinates, solar, lunar and planetary motions, practical astronomy. Some outdoor evening time required.
Astronomy^Astronomy and Astrophysics I Astronomy and Astrophysics I 3 Planets, solar systems, and stars.
Astronomy^Astronomy and Astrophysics II Astronomy and Astrophysics II 3 Exotic objects, galaxies, and cosmology.
Astronomy^Life in the Universe Life in the Universe 3 The natural history of life on earth and prospects for life elsewhere; includes chemistry, biology, geology, physics and astronomy.
Economics^Fundamentals of Microeconomics Fundamentals of Microeconomics 3 Theory and policy of human responses to scarcity; how this affects business competition, international trade, industrial organization, investment, and income distribution.
Economics^Fundamentals of Macroeconomics Fundamentals of Macroeconomics 3 Theory and policy related to unemployment, inflation, foreign trade, government spending, taxation, and banking.
Economics^Economics Honors Economics Honors 3 Introduction to economic theory and policy issues.
Economics^Intermediate Microeconomic Theory with Calculus Intermediate Microeconomic Theory with Calculus 3 Calculus-based intermediate microeconomic theory for majors in the School of Economic Sciences.
Economics^Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis 3 Income, employment, and inflation theory with policy implications.
Economics^Intermediate Microeconomics without Calculus Intermediate Microeconomics without Calculus 3 Price determination and market behavior under different market structures and the problems posed for public policy; not calculus-based.
Economics^Introductory Econometrics Introductory Econometrics 3 Methods of empirical analysis in the context of economic analysis and forecasting problems.
Economics^Money and Banking Money and Banking 3 Analysis of banking institutions and monetary policy in the U
Economics^Economics of Sports in America Economics of Sports in America 3 Economic aspects of American sports; fan demand; advertising; team output decisions; league/conference organization; government and sports.
Economics^Public Economics Public Economics 3 Theory and practice of the public sector; taxes, expenditures, and administration at local, state, and federal levels.
Economics^Labor Economics Labor Economics 3 Functioning of labor markets; introduction to collective bargaining and labor law.
Economics^The Economics of Health Care The Economics of Health Care 3 The economics of allocating, financing and delivering medical care services. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^The Economics of Organization, Contracting, and Law The Economics of Organization, Contracting, and Law 3 Examination of the economic and legal aspects of contractual and non-contractual ways of organizing transactions by business.
Economics^Aspects of Sustainable Development Aspects of Sustainable Development 3 Ecological, economical, and sociological aspects of sustainable development. .
Economics^International Trade and Finance International Trade and Finance 3 Analysis and description of international trade flows; commercial policy; multinational firms, foreign exchange markets; open economy macroeconomics; international monetary systems. .
Economics^Natural Resource Economics Natural Resource Economics 3 The role of economics in natural resource management and policy. Course equivalent to OSU's AREC 351.
Economics^Business Finance Economics Business Finance Economics 3 Financial management, decision making, and analysis for small businesses; capital market institutions and valuation processes.
Economics^Introduction to Farm and Ranch Management Introduction to Farm and Ranch Management 3 Decision making, planning, implementation and control of farms and ranches using economic principles, records, financial reports, budgeting and investment analysis.
Economics^Introduction to Food and Agricultural Markets Introduction to Food and Agricultural Markets 3 Introduction to futures and options; selected topics related to markets for and the marketing of food and agricultural products.
Economics^Business Management Economics Business Management Economics 3 Introduction to the economic concepts, techniques and applications of organizational, marketing, financial, operations, and resource management in a firm.
Economics^Special Topics in Economics Special Topics in Economics V 1-3 Current topics in economics.
Economics^Economics for Managers Economics for Managers 3 Topics in the application of economics for business decision making with an introduction to calculus. Credit not granted to graduate students in the School of Economic Sciences.
Economics^Monetary Theory and Policy Monetary Theory and Policy 3 Current issues in monetary economics with a special emphasis on policy.
Economics^Strategy and Game Theory Strategy and Game Theory 3 Strategic behavior of firms, consumers, and political parties in everyday interaction. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^Industrial Organization Industrial Organization 3 Economic theories of firm behavior and the influence of market industry parameters; buyer/seller concentration, information asymmetries, product differentiation, and entry conditions.
Economics^Transportation Economics Transportation Economics 3 Transportation economics and relevant transportation modeling; policy issues and concerns.
Economics^Economic Development Economic Development 3 Development theories, policies, and performance of Third World economies; population, land reform, foreign trade, aid, investment, debt, dependency.
Economics^Global Capitalism Today: Perspectives and Issues Global Capitalism Today: Perspectives and Issues 3 Logic and consequences of capitalism as global system; multinational corporations; underdevelopment and overdevelopment; external debt, population, and environmental crisis.
Economics^Managing the Global Environment Managing the Global Environment 3 Study of policy and management tools to address environmental issues of global significance.
Economics^Economic Analysis of Environmental and Natural Resource Policies Economic Analysis of Environmental and Natural Resource Policies 3 Nature and practice of environmental policy analysis using economics concepts and the analysis of models applied to natural resource problems and issues.
Economics^Topics in International Environmental Law, Policy and Institutions Topics in International Environmental Law, Policy and Institutions 3 Interdisciplinary study of the political development of the European Union and its impact on modern Italy; natural resource, environmental and agricultural policy and law.
Economics^Advanced Farm and Ranch Management Advanced Farm and Ranch Management 3 Business and financial principles applied to organization and operation of farms and ranches.
Economics^Advanced Food Economics and Marketing Advanced Food Economics and Marketing 3 Institutions, practices, policies, problems, and empirical analysis of food economics and marketing.
Economics^Advanced Business Management Economics Advanced Business Management Economics 3 Topics in business management economics and strategy, from demand and supply to bargaining, contracting, pricing strategies, and market structure.
Economics^International Trade and Marketing International Trade and Marketing 3 Application of economic theory to the analysis of international trade and marketing.
Economics^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Economics^Economics Capstone Economics Capstone 3 0 GPA or better. Integration of economic theory and field courses; assessment.
Economics^Advanced Topics in Economics Advanced Topics in Economics V 1-3 Advanced topics in economics.
Economics^Instructional Practicum Instructional Practicum V 1-3 Academic experience in teaching and tutoring undergraduate courses in economics.
Economics^Economics Internship Economics Internship V 2-12
Economics^Macroeconomic Theory I Macroeconomic Theory I 3 Introduction to dynamics, growth and investment, overlapping generations models, Ramsey model, consumption and investment. . Required preparation must include intermediate macroeconomics and one year of calculus. Required preparation must include intermediate macroeconomics and one year of calculus.
Economics^Microeconomic Theory I Microeconomic Theory I 3 Microeconomic theory, multivariate optimization, consumer and producer theory, competitive partial equilibrium, introduction to imperfect competition. . Required preparation must include intermediate microeconomics and one year of calculus. Required preparation must include intermediate microeconomics and one year of calculus.
Economics^Macroeconomic Theory II Macroeconomic Theory II 3 Macroeconomic theory, short-run fluctuations and nominal rigidities, monetary economics and inflation, real business cycle models, unemployment international macroeconomics. .
Economics^Microeconomic Theory II Microeconomic Theory II 3 General equilibrium, welfare economics and social choice, market failure, game theory, economics of information. .
Economics^Production and Consumption Economics Production and Consumption Economics 3 Advanced duality topics, demand and supply system modeling, financial economics and risk. .
Economics^Economics for Agricultural Decision Making Economics for Agricultural Decision Making 3 Managerial economics with specific applications to agricultural issues.
Economics^Statistics for Economists Statistics for Economists 3 Statistical theory underlying econometric techniques utilized in quantitative analysis of problems in economics and finance. . Required preparation must include college calculus and matrix algebra. Required preparation must include college calculus and matrix algebra.
Economics^Econometrics I Econometrics I 3 Single equation linear and nonlinear models; estimation, inference, finite and asymptotic properties, effects and mitigation of violations of classical assumptions. .
Economics^Econometrics II Econometrics II 3 Econometric methods for systems estimation; simultaneous equations, discrete and limited dependent variable, panel data, and time series data. .
Economics^Econometrics III Econometrics III 3 Linear and non-linear models and maximum likelihood estimation and inference; semi-parametric and parametric methods; limited dependent variable models.
Economics^Econometrics IV Econometrics IV 3 Constrained estimation, testing hypotheses, bootstrap resampling, BMM estimation and inference, nonparametric regression analysis, and an introduction to Bayesian econometrics.
Economics^Topics in Economic Sciences Topics in Economic Sciences V 1-3
Economics^Master's Econometrics Master's Econometrics 3 Theory and practice of multiple regression methods; applications to the study of economic and other phenomena; use of computer regression programs. Required preparation must include introductory statistics course. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^Master's Microeconomic Analysis I Master's Microeconomic Analysis I 3 Masters-level, calculus-based analysis of consumer and producer behavior, partial and general equilibrium, and strategic behavior. Required preparation must include intermediate microeconomics and calculus course work. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^Master's Microeconomic Analysis II Master's Microeconomic Analysis II 3 Master's-level, linear algebra-based analysis of consumer and producer theory, comparative statics and constrained optimization. Required preparation must include intermediate microeconomics and calculus course work. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^Research Methods Research Methods V 1-2
Economics^Environmental and Natural Resource Economics Environmental and Natural Resource Economics 3 Economic principles and models applied to natural resource and environmental problems, issues, and policies.
Economics^International Trade and Policy International Trade and Policy 3 International trade theories, policies, and research issues related to world trade with emphasis on agricultural commodity markets. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^Production Economics Production Economics 3 Production economics theory and methods applied to problems of production response, economic optimization, technology, policy, risk and dynamics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Economics^Managerial Economics for Decision Making Managerial Economics for Decision Making 3 Optimal economic decision making for business in a global environment. Not open to economics graduate students.
Economics^International Trade International Trade 3 Recent developments in trade theory and policy, including international factor movements, empirical analysis of trade flows and strategic trade policies.
Economics^International Development International Development 3 Structural and two-sector growth models of developing countries and countries in transition; empirical estimation of sources of growth.
Economics^Natural Resource Economics Natural Resource Economics 3 Economic dynamics of natural resource systems.
Economics^Environmental Economics Environmental Economics 3 Economic theory for environmental issues; externalities, property rights, and welfare analysis; policy design and implementation; non-market valuation and cost/benefit analysis.
Economics^Public Sector Economics Public Sector Economics 3 Public sector and public choice economics, including government debt and tax policy, public decision making, bureaucratic behavior and rent-seeking, with applications.
Economics^Applications in Microeconomic Topics Applications in Microeconomic Topics 3 Applied topics in healthcare, sports, transportation and other markets. .
Economics^Theory of Industrial Organization Theory of Industrial Organization 3 Theory of market structure and firm behavior, including price and non-price competition, information and strategic behavior, and technological change. .
Anthropology^General Anthropology General Anthropology 3 Major subfields of anthropology; physical , cultural-social, archaeology, and linguistics.
Anthropology^Great Discoveries in Archaeology Great Discoveries in Archaeology 3 Impact of great archaeological discoveries and the work of archaeologists on our sense of the past.
Anthropology^Art and Society Art and Society 3 Art as an expression of social and cultural systems in non-Western societies.
Anthropology^Peoples of the World Peoples of the World 3 Principles of cultural anthropology through study of various ethnic groups from different parts of the world.
Anthropology^Gender and Culture in America Gender and Culture in America 3 Exploration or variation in gender roles, relationships, values, and institutions among men and women in U
Anthropology^Introduction to Archaeology Introduction to Archaeology 3 Development of a dynamic picture of past human behavior from archaeological evidence.
Anthropology^Introduction to Physical Anthropology Introduction to Physical Anthropology 4 Evidence for human evolution; processes of racial differentiation; techniques of physical anthropology.
Anthropology^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Anthropology^Field Methods Field Methods V 2-8 Practice in methods of archaeological, ethnological, or linguistic field research.
Anthropology^Arts and Media in Global Perspective Arts and Media in Global Perspective 3 Contemporary arts and media around the world, and their impact on identity, society, and culture.
Anthropology^Childhood and Culture Childhood and Culture 3 Anthropological theory and methods applied to the study of infant, child, and adolescent development.
Anthropology^Religious Experience Religious Experience 3 Body, meaning, and power in religion cross culturally.
Anthropology^Cultures and Peoples of the Middle East Cultures and Peoples of the Middle East 3 Contemporary Arab cultures in a historical perspective within the framework of Western-Middle Eastern relations. .
Anthropology^Contemporary Cultures and Peoples of Africa Contemporary Cultures and Peoples of Africa 3 Introduction to family, social, political, economic and religious institutions of African cultures in context of African social issues.
Anthropology^Cultural Ecology Cultural Ecology 3 Major findings of ecological anthropology relating to problems of population, resources, and environment in small-scale cultures.
Anthropology^Indigenous Women in Traditional and Contemporary Societies Indigenous Women in Traditional and Contemporary Societies 3 Exploration of roles and activities of women in indigenous societies; how traditional gender roles have developed and changed. .
Anthropology^Gender in Cross Cultural Perspective Gender in Cross Cultural Perspective 3 Cross-cultural examination of the status and roles of women and men, sexuality and marriage, and folk concepts of sexual anatomy in traditional cultures in Western science; concepts of nature and culture are explored through a variety of perspectives. .
Anthropology^Global Feminisms Global Feminisms 3 An interdisciplinary approach to examining women's roles and experiences throughout the world and different approaches to feminism/feminisms. .
Anthropology^Native Peoples of North America Native Peoples of North America 3 A culture history/culture area study of native North America. .
Anthropology^Contemporary Native Peoples of the Americas Contemporary Native Peoples of the Americas 3 Contemporary cultures of Native American communities emphasizing North America. .
Anthropology^Origins of Culture and Civilization Origins of Culture and Civilization 3 Prehistoric roots of culture from the beginnings of humankind to the rise of the first civilizations in Africa and Eurasia.
Anthropology^America Before Columbus America Before Columbus 3 Cultures and environments of North/Middle America from the arrival of the earliest hunter-gatherers to the complex Mayan and Aztec civilizations. .
Anthropology^Time and Culture in the Northwest Time and Culture in the Northwest 3 The archaeologically reconstucted environmental and cultural past of the Northwest including contemporary scientific and social approaches and issues.
Anthropology^Old World Civilizations Old World Civilizations 3 Evolution of complex society, urbanism, states and empires in the eastern hemisphere; survey of European, African and Asian civilizations.
Anthropology^Maya, Aztec and Inca Civilizations Maya, Aztec and Inca Civilizations 3 Examination of the great prehistoric civilizations of Mesoamerica and South America.
Anthropology^Speech, Thought, and Culture Speech, Thought, and Culture 3 The role of language in social situations and as a reflection of cultural differences. .
Anthropology^Past Environments and Culture Past Environments and Culture 3 People and their environments from the Ice Age to modern time; archaeological, ecological, and biological data.
Anthropology^Introduction to Osteology Introduction to Osteology 3 Introduction to the field of osteology including molecular analysis, paleopathology, taphonomy and forensic analysis.
Anthropology^Primate Behavioral Ecology Primate Behavioral Ecology 3 Evolution of primate behavior from ecological and phylogenetic perspective emphasizing methods for understanding primate adaptations and diversity.
Anthropology^History of Anthropological Thought History of Anthropological Thought 3 Development of theories in anthropology including contributions of significant individuals, representative classics and influential current movements.
Anthropology^Topics in Anthropology Topics in Anthropology V 3-6
Anthropology^Archaeological Field School Archaeological Field School V 2-8 Training in methods of archaeological data recovery and analysis.
Anthropology^Cross-cultural Gender and Kinship Cross-cultural Gender and Kinship 3 Principles of kinship in anthropology applied to questions of cross-cultural gender definition.
Anthropology^The Self in Culture The Self in Culture 3 Survey of anthropological theories exploring self in Western/non-Western cultures through dreams, history, and human development.
Anthropology^Medical Anthropology Medical Anthropology 3 Relationships among disease, curing, culture and environment; non-Western medical systems; political economy of health care.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Epidemic Disease and Bioterrorism Anthropology of Epidemic Disease and Bioterrorism 3 Human and world response to epidemics, cultural contexts terrorism, biocultural approaches to epidemic disease, bioterrorism in human history.
Anthropology^History of American Indian Sovereignty and Federal Indian Law History of American Indian Sovereignty and Federal Indian Law 3 The history of sovereignty and Federal Indian Law against the backdrop of treaties and trust responsibility. .
Anthropology^Anthropology and World Problems Anthropology and World Problems 3 Data and methods of cultural anthropology applied to the solution of contemporary human problems, emphasizing sustainable development.
Anthropology^Human Issues in International Development Human Issues in International Development 3 Interdisciplinary analysis of complex interaction between tradition and modernity in Third World societies. .
Anthropology^Introduction to Archaeological Method and Theory Introduction to Archaeological Method and Theory 3 Archaeological theory in anthropological perspective; current trends in method and theory in American archaeology.
Anthropology^Descriptive Linguistics Descriptive Linguistics 3 Introduction to analysis and description of natural languages; phonological, syntactic, and semantic analysis of data from a variety of languages. . Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Life and Death Anthropology of Life and Death 3 Demography, dynamics of evolution, human ecology, and their relationships to the biology of living, historical, and archaeological populations. Credit not granted for both ANTH 463 and ANTH 563.
Anthropology^Human Evolution Human Evolution 3 Human origins in the light of the fossil record and evolutionary theory. Credit not granted for both ANTH 465 and ANTH 565.
Anthropology^Sex, Evolution, and Human Nature Sex, Evolution, and Human Nature 3 Human sexuality, male-female relations, cooperation, violence and parent-child relations examined cross-culturally and in nonhuman primates utilizing evolutionary and biocultural perspectives.
Anthropology^Genes, Culture and Human Diversity Genes, Culture and Human Diversity 3 Relationships between genes, language and culture are explored as a means to understanding world history, genetic and cultural diversity and unity.
Anthropology^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Anthropology^Integrative Themes in Anthropology Integrative Themes in Anthropology 3 Current research crosscutting traditional subdisciplines of anthropology.
Anthropology^Field Methods Field Methods V 2 to 8 Training in gathering and analyzing field data.
Anthropology^Tribal Peoples and Development Tribal Peoples and Development 3 Global and historic perspectives on the complex issues surrounding the problem of tribal peoples and development.
Anthropology^Advanced Studies in Culture Theory Advanced Studies in Culture Theory 3
Anthropology^Fundamentals of Cultural Anthropology Fundamentals of Cultural Anthropology 3 Overview of basic concepts and theory in cultural anthropology based on in-depth analysis of selected theoretical and ethnographic materials.
Anthropology^Lithic Technological Organization Lithic Technological Organization 4 Methods and theory of lithic technology.
Anthropology^Ceramic Analysis Ceramic Analysis 4 Basic concepts, methods, and approaches used in the analysis of archaeological pottery.
Anthropology^International Development and Human Resources International Development and Human Resources 3 History of and recent changes in international development emphasizing anthropological perspectives. .
Anthropology^Psychological Anthropology Psychological Anthropology 3 Psychological and anthropological aspects of personhood, self, human development, gender, sexuality, emotion and cognition in various cultures.
Anthropology^Historical Ethnography Historical Ethnography 3
Anthropology^Seminar in Ethnography Seminar in Ethnography 3 Methodological, stylistic and craft issues in the process and product of ethnography.
Anthropology^Archaeological Method and Theory Archaeological Method and Theory 3 History of archaeological method and theory; analysis of current literature.
Anthropology^Cultural Resource Management Cultural Resource Management 3 Role of archaeology in historic preservation and resource conservation; legal and institutional frameworks; research and interpretation in a CRM context. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Anthropology^Quantitative Methods in Anthropology Quantitative Methods in Anthropology 4
Anthropology^Prehistory of the Southwest Prehistory of the Southwest 3 Prehistory of the American Southwest; emphasis on Pueblo, Mogollon and Hohokam traditions and relationships to historic native groups.
Anthropology^Prehistory of the Northwest Coast Prehistory of the Northwest Coast 3 Prehistoric cultures, chronologies, and interrelationships on the northwest coast of North America.
Anthropology^Prehistory of the Plateau and Basin Prehistory of the Plateau and Basin 3 Archaeology of the interior Northwest and Great Basin.
Anthropology^Complexity in Small Scale Societies Complexity in Small Scale Societies 3 Seminar focused on classic literature and current issues relevant to complexity in small scale societies, predominately covering hunter-gatherer systems.
Anthropology^Models and Simulation Models and Simulation 3 Models and model-building as an anthropological approach to present and past cultures.
Anthropology^Hunters and Gatherers: Past and Present Hunters and Gatherers: Past and Present 3 Introduction to hunter-gatherer studies in anthropology and archaeology exploring uses of evolutionary approaches to modeling and reconstructing hunter-gatherer behavior in contemporary and prehistoric contexts.
Anthropology^Settlement and Agro-Pastoralism Settlement and Agro-Pastoralism 3 Development of settled communities and food production through evaluation of their social, economic and spatial configurations.
Anthropology^Descriptive Linguistics Descriptive Linguistics 3 Introduction to analysis and description of natural languages; phonological, syntactic, and semantic analysis of data from a variety of languages. . Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Anthropology^Anthropological Field Methods Seminar Anthropological Field Methods Seminar 3 Elicitation, recording techniques and analysis of sociocultural and linguistic field data.
Anthropology^Current Trends in Physical Anthropology Current Trends in Physical Anthropology 3
Anthropology^Evolutionary Method and Theory in Anthropology and Archaeology Evolutionary Method and Theory in Anthropology and Archaeology 3 A graduate-level seminar-based course focusing on the evolutionary analysis of past and present human behavior.
Anthropology^Anthropology of Life and Death Anthropology of Life and Death 3 Demography, dynamics of evolution, human ecology, and their relationships to the biology of living, historical, and archaeological populations. Credit not granted for both ANTH 463 and ANTH 563.
Anthropology^Advances in Evolution and Human Behavior Advances in Evolution and Human Behavior 3 Recent trends in the study of evolution and human behavior.
Anthropology^Human Evolution Human Evolution 3 Human origins in the light of the fossil record and evolutionary theory. Credit not granted for both ANTH 465 and ANTH 565.
Anthropology^Primate Behavioral Ecology Primate Behavioral Ecology 3 Seminar-based course focusing on evolutionary analysis of primate behavior, morphology and ecology.
Anthropology^Evolutionary Cultural Anthropology Evolutionary Cultural Anthropology 3 Evolutionary nature of culture and its interactions with human biology and ecology.
Anthropology^Sediments in Geoarchaeology Sediments in Geoarchaeology 4 Sediment-forming processes, sedimentological techniques, reconstruction of Quaternary environments, and sedimentology of site-forming processes.
Anthropology^Zooarchaeology Zooarchaeology 4 Identification of animal bones from archaeological sites, methodological and theoretical techniques for interpreting faunal remains. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Anthropology^Paleoethnobotany Paleoethnobotany 4 Methods of analysis and interpretation of botanical remains recovered from archeological sites, including pollen, phytoliths, starch, wood, and macro-botanical remains.
Anthropology^Comparative Biology of Social Traditions Comparative Biology of Social Traditions 3 Phylogenetic and modeling perspectives used to examine the evolution of social learning and cultural transmission in humans and other animals. .
Anthropology^Special Topics in Anthropology Special Topics in Anthropology 3
Anthropology^Publishing and Professional Communication Publishing and Professional Communication 3 Preparation of original research reports; survey of types of professional communication, and of standards and techniques.
Anthropology^IPEM Seminar IPEM Seminar 1
Anthropology^Archaeological Field School Archaeological Field School V 2-8 Training in methods of archaeological data recovery and analysis.
Neuroscience^Foundations of Neuroscience Foundations of Neuroscience 3 Structure and function of the nervous system from single neurons to behavior. Credit not granted for both NEUROSCI 301 and 302.
Neuroscience^Foundations of Neuroscience - Honors Foundations of Neuroscience - Honors 3 Basic concepts, analysis and discussion of the experimental foundations for understanding nervous system function. Credit not granted for both NEUROSCI 301 and 302.
Neuroscience^Neurons, Genes, and Behavior Neurons, Genes, and Behavior 3 In-depth exploration of the organization of the brain, and how this organization underlies behavior.
Neuroscience^Techniques and Experimental Design in Neuroscience Research Techniques and Experimental Design in Neuroscience Research 4 Representative modern neuroscience experiments are explored from a conceptual, technical, and design perspective.
Neuroscience^Cellular Neurobiology Cellular Neurobiology 3 Cellular and molecular interactions occurring within the nervous system.
Neuroscience^Neuroanatomy Neuroanatomy 4 Fundamental principles of the organization and plans of circuitry of the nervous system.
Neuroscience^Affective Neuroscience Affective Neuroscience 3 Brain mechanisms of human and animal emotions. Credit not granted for both NEUROSCI 409 and NEUROSCI 509. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Neuroscience^Integrated Physiology Integrated Physiology 3 Neural regulation of systems physiology examined at the system, cellular, and molecular levels.
Neuroscience^Integrative Physiology - Laboratory Integrative Physiology - Laboratory 1 Optional laboratory component of NEUROSCI 425; Laboratory to complement Integrative Physiology; quantitative and modeling based examination of physiological systems and aspects of their regulation.
Neuroscience^Principles of Neurophysiology Principles of Neurophysiology 4 Advanced exploration of the principles underlying cellular, sensory, motor and integrative functions of the nervous system.
Neuroscience^Honors Thesis Research Honors Thesis Research V 1-3 Laboratory research with emphasis on honors thesis or project directed by faculty.
Neuroscience^Special Topics: Study Abroad Special Topics: Study Abroad V 1-15
Neuroscience^Senior Project Senior Project 3 Senior capstone course for students majoring in Neuroscience.
Neuroscience^Senior Project-Poster Senior Project-Poster 1 Research project poster or oral presentation.
Neuroscience^Directed Research Directed Research V 1-3
Neuroscience^Affective Neuroscience Affective Neuroscience 3 Brain mechanisms of human and animal emotions. Credit not granted for both NEUROSCI 409 and NEUROSCI 509. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Neuroscience^Fundamentals of Neuroscience Fundamentals of Neuroscience 4 Functional aspects of the brain from cell membrane to higher integrative processes. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Neuroscience^Introduction to Veterinary Neurology Introduction to Veterinary Neurology 3 Neuroanatomical and neurophysiological bases of veterinary neurology, emphasizing central and peripheral sensory and motor systems. .
Neuroscience^Domestic and Exotic Animal Behavior Domestic and Exotic Animal Behavior 2 Focus on the medical relevance of behaviors that can cause diseases, and diseases that can lead to behavior problems in domestic and exotic animals. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Neuroscience^Integrative Neuroscience Integrative Neuroscience 3 Basic biochemical processes in the nervous system and their significance for normal and abnormal function.
Neuroscience^Neuroscience Laboratory Rotation Neuroscience Laboratory Rotation 1
Neuroscience^Special Topics in Integrative Neuroscience Special Topics in Integrative Neuroscience 3
Neuroscience^Special Topics in Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience Special Topics in Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience 3
Neuroscience^Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Neuroscience 3
Neuroscience^Special Topics in Behavioral/Clinical Neuroscience Special Topics in Behavioral/Clinical Neuroscience 3
Neuroscience^Research Writing and Seminar Research Writing and Seminar 3
Textile Engineering^Introduction to Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles Introduction to Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles 3 An introduction to apparel, textiles, merchandising and design with an emphasis on an examination of industry structures and careers.
Textile Engineering^Visual Merchandising and Promotion Visual Merchandising and Promotion 3 Examination of fashion promotion components of visual display and store layout; application of principles and elements of design and concept development.
Textile Engineering^Textile Specifications Textile Specifications 4 Examination of basic textile components including fibers, yarns, structure, coloration, and finishes relative to performance standards and expectations for intended use.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Assembly Apparel Assembly 3 Problem solving approach to apparel and textile product assembly with emphasis on product development process.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Quality and Product Analysis Apparel Quality and Product Analysis 3 Analysis of apparel manufacturing including product development, product management and production and analysis of overall quality assessment.
Textile Engineering^Historic Costumes and Textiles Historic Costumes and Textiles 3 Global survey of dress and textiles from prehistory to mid-1800s.
Textile Engineering^Consumer Behavior in Fashion Consumer Behavior in Fashion 3 Concepts and theories from social sciences to consumer behavior research related to fashion and apparel marketing.
Textile Engineering^Advanced Apparel Assembly Advanced Apparel Assembly 4 Advanced assembly techniques for a range of textiles and multi-layer garments; emphasis of high-quality execution on final products.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Flat Patterning and Design Apparel Flat Patterning and Design 3 Flat pattern techniques for apparel patternmaking; development and creation of original design.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Draping, Fitting, and Design Apparel Draping, Fitting, and Design 3 Exploration of draping and flat pattern techniques; fitting techniques emphasized; development and creation of original design.
Textile Engineering^Fashion Forecasting Fashion Forecasting 3 Developing forecasting expertise needed to work in merchandising environment; examined through influences on acceptance and rejection of apparel/textile products.
Textile Engineering^Textile Product Analysis Textile Product Analysis 3 Analysis of textile product characteristics including fiber, structure, finish, apparel product properties, garment performance, and overall quality assessment and assurance.
Textile Engineering^Merchandise Buying and Planning Merchandise Buying and Planning 3 In-depth study of apparel buying and planning, application of buying and planning principles, problem solving skill development.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Illustration and Rendering Apparel Illustration and Rendering 3 Illustration and rendering used for costume and fashion design. .
Textile Engineering^Visual Analysis and Aesthetics Visual Analysis and Aesthetics 3 In-depth analysis of the visual interaction among apparel, accessories and the body; identifying effective visual communication.
Textile Engineering^Advanced Apparel Design Advanced Apparel Design 3 Integrated application of apparel design, patternmaking principles with assembly processes to demonstrate capacity to develop and create high quality original designs.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Design Collection Apparel Design Collection 3 Problem-solving creation and presentation of two and three-dimensional high quality original apparel and designs.
Textile Engineering^International Trade in Textiles and Apparel International Trade in Textiles and Apparel 3 Economic/social conditions influencing apparel trade and consumption; comparison of production, distribution, and consumption of apparel in the global economy.
Textile Engineering^Creativity: Development of Consumer Products Creativity: Development of Consumer Products 3 Processes and techniques to stimulate creativity from a multidisciplinary approach for the development of new consumer products.
Textile Engineering^Multicultural Perspectives on the Body and Dress Multicultural Perspectives on the Body and Dress 3 Engagement in multidisciplinary approaches that explore the social importance of the body, gender and dress.
Textile Engineering^Regional Experience in Apparel/Textiles Field Regional Experience in Apparel/Textiles Field V 1-3 Field trips to experience the textile and apparel industry from the perspective of professionals within a wide range of careers. Additional cost associated with class. See department for details.
Textile Engineering^History of Fashion Design History of Fashion Design 3 Overview of apparel design, designers and social history in the 20th century.
Textile Engineering^National Experience in Apparel/Textiles Field National Experience in Apparel/Textiles Field V 1-3
Textile Engineering^Soft Goods Supply Chain Management Soft Goods Supply Chain Management 3 Stages and functional areas of soft goods supply chain management.
Textile Engineering^International Experience in Apparel/Textiles Field International Experience in Apparel/Textiles Field V 1-3
Textile Engineering^Advanced Management Skills Advanced Management Skills 3 Advanced application of management principles and theory in the retail world.
Textile Engineering^Strategy Planning and Decision Making Strategy Planning and Decision Making 3 Examination and synthesis of advanced merchandising theory; strategic planning, decision-making and the role of technology in the textile and apparel industry.
Textile Engineering^Costume Museum Management Costume Museum Management 3 Skills and techniques for handling textiles and apparel artifacts in museums.
Textile Engineering^Cooperative Education Internship Cooperative Education Internship V 1 to 6
Textile Engineering^Computer Applications in Apparel, Textile, and Design Computer Applications in Apparel, Textile, and Design 3 Computer-aided design techniques in fashion graphics; portfolio development and presentation.
Textile Engineering^Special Event Production Special Event Production V 1 to 3
Textile Engineering^Environmental and Social Issues in the Apparel Industry Environmental and Social Issues in the Apparel Industry 3 Exploration of current environmental and social issues in the global apparel industry.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Design Graduate Studio Apparel Design Graduate Studio 3 Integration of consumer demand target market research with the development, application, and testing of prototype products for specific end uses.
Textile Engineering^Theory and Methods of Culture, Gender and Dress Theory and Methods of Culture, Gender and Dress 3 Exploration of appearance issues, theory, and research from the perspective of social science, feminist theory, postmodern and poststructural discourses.
Textile Engineering^Apparel Merchandising Analysis Apparel Merchandising Analysis 3 Analysis of marketing and retailing strategies, trends and technological developments in relation to business and consumer aspects within a global context.
Textile Engineering^Research Methods Research Methods 3 Analysis and understanding of research methods, exploration of thesis topic as applicable to the fields of apparel, merchandising, design and textiles.
Textile Engineering^Aesthetic Analysis of Fashion Design Aesthetic Analysis of Fashion Design 3 In-depth analysis of apparel fashion design provided through exploration of aesthetic and human perception theories within a socio-historic context.
Textile Engineering^Advanced Instructional Practicum Advanced Instructional Practicum 3 Information and direction for graduate student teaching assistants seeking professional development in classroom teaching.
Textile Engineering^Topics in Apparel and Textiles Topics in Apparel and Textiles V 1-3
Textile Engineering^Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination Master's Special Problems, Directed Study and/or Examination V 1-18
History^Classical and Christian Europe Classical and Christian Europe 3 Survey of Europe, from 1000 B.C.E. to 1650 C.E. including Greece and Rome, Medieval Europe, the Renaissance and Reformation.
History^Modern Europe Modern Europe 3 European history and its impact upon the global community from the seventeenth through twentieth centuries.
History^The Roots of Contemporary Issues The Roots of Contemporary Issues 3 Foundational first-year course that explores the deep historical roots of global contemporary issues relevant to students' lives in the 21st century. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 105 and 305.
History^American History to American History to 3 Social, economic, cultural history of British mainland colonies/United States to 1877.
History^American History Since American History Since 3 Social, economic, cultural history of United States, 1877 to present.
History^World History I World History I 3 Integrated study of political, social, cultural, economic, environmental and religious systems among peoples and civilization prior to 1500 CE.
History^World History II World History II 3 Integrated study of political, social, cultural, economic, environmental and religious systems among peoples and civilization after 1500 CE.
History^Peoples of the United States Peoples of the United States 3 Examination of the peoples of the United States from the beginnings of the colonial era to the present.
History^Asian Pacific American History Asian Pacific American History 3 Historical experience of Asian/Pacific Americans since the 19th century. .
History^African American History African American History 3 History of African Americans in the US with emphasis upon major themes of the Black experience. .
History^American Cultures American Cultures 3 Introduction to the interdisciplinary study of American cultures and the field of American studies. .
History^Latin America, The Colonial Period Latin America, The Colonial Period 3 Overview of the most significant events, social and ethnic groups, practices, and institutions of colonial Latin America.
History^Latin America, The National Period Latin America, The National Period 3 Analysis of challenges faced by Latin America in nation-building after independence throughout the nineteenth century, through case studies.
History^India: History and Culture India: History and Culture 3 Survey of South Asian history, societies and cultures - development of civilization and contemporary societies of India and South Asia. .
History^Southeast Asian History: Vietnam to Indonesia Southeast Asian History: Vietnam to Indonesia 3 Historical introduction to Southeast Asian social, religious, political, economic and cultural institutions including Vietnam, Thailand, Burma, the Philippines and Indonesia. .
History^Introduction to Middle Eastern History Introduction to Middle Eastern History 3 History of the Middle East from Muhammad to the present; political and religious development and the impact of empires. .
History^Foundations of Islamic Civilization Foundations of Islamic Civilization 3 Main ideas and institutions that have characterized Islamic civilization since its founding, presented thematically. .
History^Introduction to African History Introduction to African History 3 Survey of the history of Africa from human origins to present.
History^Introduction to East Asian Culture Introduction to East Asian Culture 3 Survey of East Asia history from 1766 BCE to the present. .
History^Race and the Law in American History Race and the Law in American History 3 Introduction to the role of the law in American race-relations since 1750. .
History^History of Women in American Society History of Women in American Society 3 Exploration of the many roles women have played in American society from the Colonial period through the twentieth century. .
History^Writing about History Writing about History 3 Historical topics, use of sources, analytical thought, and precision in language.
History^Roots of Contemporary Issues For Transfer Students Roots of Contemporary Issues For Transfer Students 3 Historical roots of global contemporary issues relevant to students' lives in the 21st century. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 105 and 305.
History^Cultures and Peoples of the Middle East Cultures and Peoples of the Middle East 3 Contemporary Arab cultures in a historical perspective within the framework of Western-Middle Eastern relations. .
History^North American Indian History, Precontact to Present North American Indian History, Precontact to Present 3 History of North American Indian peoples from circa 1350 to present. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
History^Black Freedom Struggle Black Freedom Struggle 3 Historic exploration of black resistance focusing on nationwide movement that developed following World War II. .
History^American Roots: Immigration, Migration, and Ethnic Identity American Roots: Immigration, Migration, and Ethnic Identity 3 An analysis of immigration to migration within the US including political and social consequences and the experiences of ethnic groups since the early 19th century. .
History^Poverty and Policy in American History Poverty and Policy in American History 3 Poverty in America and attempts to ameliorate it including race/ gender and poverty and poverty policy.
History^Geographical History of the US Geographical History of the US 3 Perspectives on the geographical history of the U.S. from early times to the present.
History^American Agriculture and Rural Life American Agriculture and Rural Life 3 History and economic structure of American agriculture, land settlement, organizational nature of firms, technology, and patterns in rural life.
History^US Popular Culture, to US Popular Culture, to 3 Sports, early movies and radio, vaudeville, minstrel shows, circuses, Wild West shows, music, and other popular arts in historical context.
History^US Popular Culture Since US Popular Culture Since 3 Movies, radio, television, sports, music, and other popular arts in historical context.
History^Abraham Lincoln and the Lincoln Legacy Abraham Lincoln and the Lincoln Legacy 3 Broad overview of the life, presidency and legacy of Abraham Lincoln.
History^Latin American Cultural History Latin American Cultural History 3 Analysis of the contact between Native Americans, Europeans, Africans, and others and the cultural ramifications that have ensued.
History^Women in Latin American History Women in Latin American History 3 Survey of women's changing roles throughout Latin America from pre colonial to present. .
History^History of Sexualities History of Sexualities 3 Historical analysis of the social construction of sexualities in intersection with race and class within national and transnational contexts. .
History^Women in the Ancient World Women in the Ancient World 3 Role of women in ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Israel, Greece, and Rome; focus on the formation of western attitudes toward women. .
History^Ancient Greece Ancient Greece 3 History and culture of pre Christian GREEK civilization.
History^Rome: Republic and Empire Rome: Republic and Empire 3 History and culture of the Roman world from the independence of the city to the onset of the medieval order.
History^History of England to History of England to 3 English history; intellectual and cultural development.
History^European Women's History, - European Women's History, - 3 Women's experiences in Europe from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment and the ideas and roles that shaped their opportunities. .
History^History of European Popular Culture History of European Popular Culture 3 The transformation of Europe's popular culture through social, religious, print, and industrial revolutions.
History^History of Ancient and Medieval India History of Ancient and Medieval India 3 Historical development to 1500 CE of states, religions, caste society, gender customs and social ecology in India. .
History^Chinese Civilization Chinese Civilization 3 Growth of Chinese civilization from the Bronze Age to the present. .
History^Japanese Civilization Japanese Civilization 3 Overview of the evolution of Japanese culture and society from ancient times to the present. .
History^Science in Western Civilization Through Newton Science in Western Civilization Through Newton 3 Development of Western science and its influence on European culture and society.
History^Science in Western Civilization from Newton to Einstein Science in Western Civilization from Newton to Einstein 3 Development of modern science and its influence on Western culture and society.
History^World War II in Europe World War II in Europe 3 Causes for war; military operations; economic mobilization; social and cultural change; occupation and resistance; the Holocaust; the legacy of war.
History^World War II in Asia and the Pacific World War II in Asia and the Pacific 3 Imperial rivalries in Asia; Japanese militarism; military, ideological and social aspects of the war; the atomic bomb; memory of the war. .
History^US and Vietnam US and Vietnam 3 Course and consequences of US involvement in Indo-China, focusing on the causes and conduct of the US Vietnam conflict from 1945-1997.
History^U.S. Military History U.S. Military History 3 American military history from 1630 to the present. Themes will include civil military relations, the conduct of war, and political-military relations.
History^Topics in African History Topics in African History 3
History^History of Women in the American West History of Women in the American West 3 The multicultural history of women in the west through women's literature, archives, and oral history. .
History^Lesbian and Gay History: Culture, Politics and Social Change in the US Lesbian and Gay History: Culture, Politics and Social Change in the US 3 History and theory of same-sex sexuality in the United States including identity formation, community development, politics and culture. .
History^History in Media History in Media 3 Representation of historical people and events through different media e.g., text, film, video, and computers.
History^Religion and American Culture Religion and American Culture 3 American religions from pre-contact times to the present focusing on the evolution of religious faiths.
History^American Environmental History American Environmental History 3 A history of environmental change, ideas of nature, natural resource development, conservation politics, science and environmental policy.
History^History of American Indian Sovereignty and Federal Indian Law History of American Indian Sovereignty and Federal Indian Law 3 The history of sovereignty and Federal Indian Law against the backdrop of treaties and trust responsibility. .
History^American Diplomatic History, - American Diplomatic History, - 3 Policies and principles characteristic of American diplomacy from 1776 to 1914. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 411 and HISTORY 511. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^American Diplomatic History in the th Century American Diplomatic History in the th Century 3 Credit not granted for both HISTORY 412 and HISTORY 512. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Early American History to Early American History to 3 The cultures and interactions of Native Americans, Europeans, and Africans; development of colonial American societies and institutions.
History^The Era of the American Revolution The Era of the American Revolution 3 The origins of the American Revolution, the War of Independence, and the emergence of republican government and society.
History^Jeffersonian-Jacksonian America Jeffersonian-Jacksonian America 3 Social and political history of the United States from 1789 to 1845; Jeffersonian and Jacksonian eras. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 415 and HISTORY 515. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Civil War and Reconstruction Civil War and Reconstruction 3 The Civil War as a problem in historical causation and social, political, and economic impact of the war. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 416 and HISTORY 516. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Rise of Modern America Rise of Modern America 3 Response to industrialism in the Gilded Age and the reform movements of Populism and Progressivism. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 417 and HISTORY 517. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^United States, - United States, - 3 America through World War I, cultural tensions of the Twenties, and the crises of Depression and WWII. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 418 and HISTORY 518. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^United States, -Present United States, -Present 3 International and domestic impact of the Cold War, era of McCarthyism, American aspirations, tensions and conflicts in the post-industrial era. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 419 and HISTORY 519. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^The American West The American West 3 Multicultural exploration of the frontier experience and western America; environment, economic development, gender, class and race emphasized. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of the Pacific Northwest History of the Pacific Northwest 3 Political, social economic and environmental history of the Pacific Northwest. Fulfills the teaching certification requirement for Washington state history. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 422 and HISTORY 522. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Radicals, Reformers, and Romantics: The Impact Radicals, Reformers, and Romantics: The Impact 3 Changing thought and its impact in the United States from colonial times to the present. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 423 and HISTORY 523. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^The City in History The City in History 3 Description and comparison of the city through history in European and one or more non-Western cultures.
History^Workers Across North America Workers Across North America 3 International interactions between workers and labor unions in Mexico, Canada and the US. .
History^Public History: Theory and Methodology Public History: Theory and Methodology 3 An introduction to the broad range of non-traditional careers in history. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 427 and HISTORY 527. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
History^History of Mexico History of Mexico 3 War of independence, 19th century Mexico and the liberal-conservative struggle; modern Mexico since the Revolution of 1910. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 430 and HISTORY 530. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^th Century Latin America th Century Latin America 3 Contemporary history of Latin America, analyzing political, economic, social, and cultural history through a thematic, comparative approach. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 432 and HISTORY 532. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of Cuba and the Caribbean History of Cuba and the Caribbean 3 Historical development of the Caribbean, with emphasis on Cuba, from the Spanish arrival to Castro's revolution. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 433 and HISTORY 533. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Revolution in Latin America Revolution in Latin America 3 Social and political development in Central America; reasons for dictatorships and revolutionary movements; comparison with other Latin American regions. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 434 and HISTORY 534. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^European Expansion Overseas, - European Expansion Overseas, - 3 The factors underlying European overseas expansion before 1800 and its impact on indigenous societies and world trading patterns.
History^Imperialism in the Modern World Imperialism in the Modern World 3 History of imperialism since 1800 as a global phenomenon.
History^Topics in Public History Topics in Public History V 1-3
History^Slavery, Abolition and Emancipation in World History Slavery, Abolition and Emancipation in World History 3 History of slavery and abolition as a world-wide phenomena; trends and debates in historiographical literature. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 439 and HISTORY 539. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^The Early Middle Ages, - The Early Middle Ages, - 3 Western Europe, the Byzantine Empire, and Islam from the dissolution of classical Roman civilization to the 11th century revival.
History^The Later Middle Ages, - The Later Middle Ages, - 3 Western European and Byzantine civilizations from the 11th century revival to the advent of the Renaissance in the West.
History^The Renaissance The Renaissance 3 Political, cultural, and religious history of Europe, 1300-1500.
History^The Reformation The Reformation 3 Political, cultural, and religious history of Europe, 1500-1650.
History^Europe in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Era, to Europe in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Era, to 3 Credit not granted for both HISTORY 447 and HISTORY 547. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Modern Europe as Reflected In Art Modern Europe as Reflected In Art 3 Early Modern Europe as reflected in architecture and the visual arts.
History^Europe and Two World Wars, - Europe and Two World Wars, - 3 Political, intellectual, economic, and international aspects of European life during and between two world wars. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 449 and HISTORY 549. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Europe Since Europe Since 3 Europe from the end of World War II to the present; the Cold War, European integration, social and intellectual life. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 450 and HISTORY 550. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Age of Revolution: Europe, - Age of Revolution: Europe, - 3 The consolidation of industrial society and the nation-state in 19th-century Europe. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 453 and HISTORY 553. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Age of Empire: Europe, - Age of Empire: Europe, - 3 The rise of Europe to world predominance and the crisis of the European order. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 454 and HISTORY 554. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^The Great War - The Great War - 3 Political, social and cultural history of the first global war from the Sarajevo assassination through the post-war peace settlements.
History^Modern Britain Modern Britain 3 Britain and the Empire from the Napoleonic wars to the present. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 459 and HISTORY 559. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of Imperial Russia History of Imperial Russia 3 History and culture of Imperial Russia from Peter the Great to the 1905 revolution. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of the Soviet Union History of the Soviet Union 3 The Russian revolutions and the Soviet regime: 1905 to the present. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Comparative Genocide Comparative Genocide 3 Study of the concepts, history, and consequences of genocide in the global perspective through theoretical and case study analysis. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 464 and HISTORY 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of the Cold War, -present History of the Cold War, -present 3 Exploration of the 50 year cold conflict between the US and USSR and its political, social, economic, and cultural consequences for the world.
History^Modern France Modern France 3 The history of France from the revolution of 1789 to the present. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 467 and HISTORY 567. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Hitler and Nazi Germany Hitler and Nazi Germany 3 Origins and rise of Nazism; state, society and culture in the Third Reich; Nazi racial ideology; world war; the Holocaust. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 468 and HISTORY 568. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Seminar in History Seminar in History 3
History^The Middle East Since World War I The Middle East Since World War I 3 Developments in the Middle East since World War I including nationalism, fundamentalism, and revolution. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^The Middle East and the West The Middle East and the West 3 East-west tensions in the context of historical relations between the Middle East and West Europe since the rise of Islam. .
History^Modern South Asia: Community and Conflict Modern South Asia: Community and Conflict 3 Historical transformation of communities and communal conflicts in modern South ASIA from 1500 to present; themes: caste, religion, geography, environment and economy. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Mao to Deng: The People's Republic of China, - Mao to Deng: The People's Republic of China, - 3 The major political, social, economic and cultural developments during the People's Republic of China. .
History^Revolutionary China, to Present Revolutionary China, to Present 3 Continuity and change in the political, social, cultural and economic experience of China since 1800. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Modern Japanese History Modern Japanese History 3 Examination of political, socioeconomic and cultural changes and the international crises in modern Japan since the 19th century. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of East Asian Economic Development Since History of East Asian Economic Development Since 3 The historical relationships between politics and economics in East Asian since 1945. .
History^Methods of Teaching Social Studies Methods of Teaching Social Studies 3 Methods, resources, selection of content, past and present issues in social studies education.
History^Technology and Social Change to Technology and Social Change to 3 The emergence of modern technological society with emphasis on the period 1750-1950.
History^United States Foreign Relations United States Foreign Relations 3 Ends and means in foreign policy; organization, management, control, and current policy issues. .
History^Recent Political Thought Recent Political Thought 3 The development of political thought since Machiavelli. .
History^History of World Trade History of World Trade 3 The evolution of the institutions, conditions, and consequences of world trade after 1000.
History^Cultural Appetites: Food in World History Cultural Appetites: Food in World History 3 What food selection and preparation reveals about cultural integration around the world from the medieval era to the present.
History^Global Environmental History Global Environmental History 3 Historical dynamics of human communities and their ecological settings.
History^Space, Place, and Power in History: Historical Geography in Global Perspective Space, Place, and Power in History: Historical Geography in Global Perspective 3 Introduction to the discipline of historical geography; geographical and spatial approaches to European, North American, and Asian history.
History^Topics in American Studies Topics in American Studies 3
History^Field Course: Foundations in US History Field Course: Foundations in US History 3
History^Field Course in American History Field Course in American History 3
History^American Diplomatic History, - American Diplomatic History, - 3 Policies and principles characteristic of American diplomacy from 1776 to 1914. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 411 and HISTORY 511. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^American Diplomatic History in the th Century American Diplomatic History in the th Century 3 Credit not granted for both HISTORY 412 and HISTORY 512. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Jeffersonian-Jacksonian America Jeffersonian-Jacksonian America 3 Social and political history of the United States from 1789 to 1845; Jeffersonian and Jacksonian eras. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 415 and HISTORY 515. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Civil War and Reconstruction Civil War and Reconstruction 3 The Civil War as a problem in historical causation and social, political, and economic impact of the war. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 416 and HISTORY 516. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Rise of Modern America Rise of Modern America 3 Response to industrialism in the Gilded Age and the reform movements of Populism and Progressivism. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 417 and HISTORY 517. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^United States, - United States, - 3 America through World War I, cultural tensions of the Twenties, and the crises of Depression and WWII. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 418 and HISTORY 518. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^United States, -Present United States, -Present 3 International and domestic impact of the Cold War, era of McCarthyism, American aspirations, tensions and conflicts in the post-industrial era. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 419 and HISTORY 519. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Field Course in the American West Field Course in the American West 3
History^The American West The American West 3 Multicultural exploration of the frontier experience and western America; environment, economic development, gender, class and race emphasized. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of the Pacific Northwest History of the Pacific Northwest 3 Political, social economic and environmental history of the Pacific Northwest. Fulfills the teaching certification requirement for Washington state history. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 422 and HISTORY 522. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Radicals, Reformers, and Romantics: The Impact Radicals, Reformers, and Romantics: The Impact 3 Changing thought and its impact in the United States from colonial times to the present. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 423 and HISTORY 523. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Seminar in the American West Seminar in the American West 3
History^Seminar in American History Seminar in American History 3
History^Public History: Theory and Methodology Public History: Theory and Methodology 3 An introduction to the broad range of non-traditional careers in history. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 427 and HISTORY 527. Offered at 400 and 500 level. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
History^Seminar in Public History Seminar in Public History 3
History^Interpreting History through Material Culture Interpreting History through Material Culture 3
History^History of Mexico History of Mexico 3 War of independence, 19th century Mexico and the liberal-conservative struggle; modern Mexico since the Revolution of 1910. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 430 and HISTORY 530. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^th Century Latin America th Century Latin America 3 Contemporary history of Latin America, analyzing political, economic, social, and cultural history through a thematic, comparative approach. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 432 and HISTORY 532. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of Cuba and the Caribbean History of Cuba and the Caribbean 3 Historical development of the Caribbean, with emphasis on Cuba, from the Spanish arrival to Castro's revolution. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 433 and HISTORY 533. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Revolution in Latin America Revolution in Latin America 3 Social and political development in Central America; reasons for dictatorships and revolutionary movements; comparison with other Latin American regions. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 434 and HISTORY 534. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Field Course in Latin American History Field Course in Latin American History 3
History^Slavery, Abolition and Emancipation in World History Slavery, Abolition and Emancipation in World History 3 History of slavery and abolition as a world-wide phenomena; trends and debates in historiographical literature. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 439 and HISTORY 539. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Europe in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Era, to Europe in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Era, to 3 Credit not granted for both HISTORY 447 and HISTORY 547. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Europe and Two World Wars, - Europe and Two World Wars, - 3 Political, intellectual, economic, and international aspects of European life during and between two world wars. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 449 and HISTORY 549. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Europe Since Europe Since 3 Europe from the end of World War II to the present; the Cold War, European integration, social and intellectual life. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 450 and HISTORY 550. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Age of Revolution: Europe, - Age of Revolution: Europe, - 3 The consolidation of industrial society and the nation-state in 19th-century Europe. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 453 and HISTORY 553. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Age of Empire: Europe, - Age of Empire: Europe, - 3 The rise of Europe to world predominance and the crisis of the European order. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 454 and HISTORY 554. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Modern Britain Modern Britain 3 Britain and the Empire from the Napoleonic wars to the present. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 459 and HISTORY 559. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Field Course in Early European History Field Course in Early European History 3
History^Field Course in Early Modern European History Field Course in Early Modern European History 3 Readings and interpretive problems in early modern European history .
History^History of Imperial Russia History of Imperial Russia 3 History and culture of Imperial Russia from Peter the Great to the 1905 revolution. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^History of the Soviet Union History of the Soviet Union 3 The Russian revolutions and the Soviet regime: 1905 to the present. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Comparative Genocide Comparative Genocide 3 Study of the concepts, history, and consequences of genocide in the global perspective through theoretical and case study analysis. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 464 and HISTORY 564. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Modern France Modern France 3 The history of France from the revolution of 1789 to the present. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 467 and HISTORY 567. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Hitler and Nazi Germany Hitler and Nazi Germany 3 Origins and rise of Nazism; state, society and culture in the Third Reich; Nazi racial ideology; world war; the Holocaust. Credit not granted for both HISTORY 468 and HISTORY 568. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Field Course in Modern European History Field Course in Modern European History 3
History^World History Theory and Methods World History Theory and Methods 3
History^Topics in World History Topics in World History 3
History^The Middle East Since World War I The Middle East Since World War I 3 Developments in the Middle East since World War I including nationalism, fundamentalism, and revolution.
History^Field Course in African History Field Course in African History 3
History^Modern South Asia: Community and Conflict Modern South Asia: Community and Conflict 3 Historical transformation of communities and communal conflicts in modern South ASIA from 1500 to present; themes: caste, religion, geography, environment and economy. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Field Course in Women's History Field Course in Women's History 3
History^Revolutionary China, to Present Revolutionary China, to Present 3 Continuity and change in the political, social, cultural and economic experience of China since 1800. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Modern Japanese History Modern Japanese History 3 Examination of political, socioeconomic and cultural changes and the international crises in modern Japan since the 19th century. . Offered at 400 and 500 level.
History^Field Course in Asian History Field Course in Asian History 3
History^Historiography Historiography 3
History^The Teaching of History in College The Teaching of History in College 3 Theory, problems, and methods of teaching history at the college level.
History^Topics in American Studies Topics in American Studies 3
History^History Internship History Internship V 1-12
History^History Colloquium History Colloquium 1
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Computer-aided Design and Visualization Engineering Computer-aided Design and Visualization 2 Introduction to 3-D solid modeling, parts, drawings, assemblies, multi-body parts, sketch editing, sheet metal, weldments, surface and mold tools.
Mechanical Engineering^Dynamics Dynamics 3 Kinematics and kinetics of particles and rigid bodies; introduction to mechanical vibration. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Integrated CAD Design Integrated CAD Design 2 CAD based analysis for engineering design, the application of motion, FEA and CFD, CAD simulations to the engineering design process.
Mechanical Engineering^Materials Laboratory Materials Laboratory 1 Mechanical behavior of materials and application to engineering structures.
Mechanical Engineering^Fundamentals of Thermodynamics Fundamentals of Thermodynamics 3 Thermodynamic properties of matter, ideal and real gases, work and heat, first and second laws and their application to engineering systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Fluid Mechanics Fluid Mechanics 3 Fluid statics, laminar and turbulent flow, similitude, pipe flow, boundary layers, lift and drag and measurement techniques. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Thermal and Fluids Laboratory Thermal and Fluids Laboratory 2 Instrumentation, data acquisition, and theory verification in the thermal and fluid sciences.
Mechanical Engineering^Manufacturing Processes Manufacturing Processes 2 Manufacturing processes, material fabrication, and nontraditional processing.
Mechanical Engineering^Manufacturing Processes Laboratory Manufacturing Processes Laboratory 1 Manufacturing processes laboratory in machining, welding, forming; manufacturing project.
Mechanical Engineering^Engineering Analysis Engineering Analysis 3 Analysis and modeling of engineering problems utilizing numerical and mathematical techniques and computers. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Systems Design Systems Design 3 Systems and component design; product development from specifications to manufacturing; team-based CAD design projects; engineering economics; engineering professional skills.
Mechanical Engineering^Dynamics Systems Dynamics Systems 3 Fundamentals of vibration analysis, control systems, system modeling and dynamics analysis.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechatronics Mechatronics 3 Integration of mechanical and microprocessor-based systems; control theory implemented with data acquisition systems; sensors; actuators, signal conditioning, programmable logic controllers.
Mechanical Engineering^Thermal Systems Design Thermal Systems Design 3 Design and analysis of thermofluid systems using principles of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer.
Mechanical Engineering^Heat Transfer Heat Transfer 3 Conduction, radiation, and convection heat transfer; analytical, numerical, experimental results for solids, liquids, and gases; heat exchanger design. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Experimental Design Experimental Design 3 Designing, conducting, and reporting of experimental investigations involving mechanical equipment.
Mechanical Engineering^Computational Fluid Dynamics Computational Fluid Dynamics 3 Basic concepts and applications of computational fluid dynamics to the analysis and design of fluid systems and components.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanics of Solids Mechanics of Solids 3 Elasticity, elastic stress distributions; plastic deformation of single and polycrystals; introduction to dislocation theory and its applications; creep, fracture, fatigue. .
Mechanical Engineering^Machine Design Machine Design 3 Optimal design of machinery; analysis for prevention of machine elements failure.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Systems Design Mechanical Systems Design 3 Integrative design in mechanical engineering; multidisciplinary design project considering both technical and non-technical contexts; organizational dynamics and communications.
Mechanical Engineering^Air Conditioning Air Conditioning 3 Principles of heat and moisture transfer; air motion and purity in buildings; design of systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Design of Solar Thermal Systems Design of Solar Thermal Systems 3 Design of solar thermal systems for heating and cooling of buildings, heating of water, electrical generation, industrial processes and distillation.
Mechanical Engineering^Combustion Engines Combustion Engines 3 Internal combustion engines; spark ignition engines, diesels, and gas turbines.
Mechanical Engineering^Applied Aerodynamics Applied Aerodynamics 3 Aerodynamic lift and drag; circulation; boundary layers, application to subsonic aircraft wing design.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanical Vibration Mechanical Vibration 3 Vibrating systems and noise producing mechanisms; design for noise and vibration control. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Introduction to Nuclear Engineering Introduction to Nuclear Engineering 3 Applied nuclear physics; application to the nuclear fuel cycle and nuclear reactor core design; nuclear reactor systems and safety. .
Mechanical Engineering^Finite Element Methods in Design Finite Element Methods in Design 3 Design of selected mechanical systems components using finite element analysis.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced CAD and Geometric Modeling Advanced CAD and Geometric Modeling 3 Parametric and feature based CAD/CAM; geometric modeling and its mathematical basis; integration of CAD with design processes and other software.
Mechanical Engineering^Design for Manufacture and Modern Manufacturing Strategies Design for Manufacture and Modern Manufacturing Strategies 3 Design for manufacture and assembly; modern manufacturing philosophies and practices; lean manufacturing; manufacturing cost and time analysis; quality control.
Mechanical Engineering^Manufacturing Enterprise Systems -- Automation and Product Realization Manufacturing Enterprise Systems -- Automation and Product Realization 3 Manufacturing automation and product realization; role of information technology and electronic data in manufacturing enterprise systems; product life-cycle management and related tools and processes; sustainable and green manufacturing.
Mechanical Engineering^Control Systems Control Systems 3 Analysis and design of feedback control systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Topics in Mechanical Engineering Topics in Mechanical Engineering V 1 to 4
Mechanical Engineering^Internship in Mechanical Industry Internship in Mechanical Industry V 3-6
Mechanical Engineering^Continuum Mechanics Continuum Mechanics 3 Unified presentation of principles common to all branches of solid and fluid mechanics; viscous fluids, elasticity, viscoelasticity, and plasticity.
Mechanical Engineering^Sustainability Assessment for Engineering Design Sustainability Assessment for Engineering Design 3 Sustainability assessment, including environmental, societal, and economic assessment, in design and planning for entire product life cycle.
Mechanical Engineering^Systems Design Approaches for Sustainability Systems Design Approaches for Sustainability 3 Sustainability in systems design methodologies; systems modeling and decision-making for sustainability; multidisciplinary design optimization; research topics.
Mechanical Engineering^MEMS Engineering MEMS Engineering 3 Introduction to the design, fabrication and application of microelectromechanical systems. .
Mechanical Engineering^Crystal Plasticity Crystal Plasticity 3 Dislocation theory; slip; climb; mechanical properties of polycrystalline materials and application to important deformation processes. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Thermodynamics of Solids Thermodynamics of Solids 3 Thermodynamic properties of solid solutions; models for substitutional and interstitial solutions; configurational and non-configurational contributions; calculation of phase diagrams. .
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Heat Transfer Advanced Heat Transfer 3 Derivation of the energy conservation equation; laminar and turbulent forced convection heat transfer with internal and external flow; free convection. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Conduction and Radiation Heat Transfer Conduction and Radiation Heat Transfer 3 Principles of conduction and radiation heat transfer with focus on solving conduction and radiation problems of engineering interest.
Mechanical Engineering^Thin Films Thin Films 3 Materials science aspect of thin films, including growth, characterization, and properties for electrical, mechanical, corrosion, and optical behavior. .
Mechanical Engineering^Multiscale Modeling in Thermomechanics of Materials Multiscale Modeling in Thermomechanics of Materials 3 Multiscale problems in thermomechanics of materials; practical and computational aspects of homogenization, granular materials, dislocation plasticity and atomistic methods. .
Mechanical Engineering^Fundamentals of Fluids I Fundamentals of Fluids I 3 Governing equations of fluid mechanics accompanied by applications of Navier-Stokes equation to simple flow situations, boundary layer analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Biomechanics Biomechanics 3 Methods for analysis of rigid body and deformable mechanics; application to biological tissue, especially bone, cartilage, ligaments, tendon and muscle. . Credit not granted for more than one of BIO ENG 425, BIO ENG 525, or ME 525. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Mechanical Engineering^Statistical Thermodynamics Statistical Thermodynamics 3 Microscopic development of equilibrium; classical and quantum particle statistics; statistical description of real and ideal gases, solids, and liquids. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Macroscopic Thermodynamics Macroscopic Thermodynamics 3 Advanced thermodynamics from macroscopic viewpoint; basic postulates, equilibrium, stability, property relations; application to thermal-fluid and solid mechanics; irreversible thermodynamics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Elasticity Elasticity 3 Theory of kinematics of solid deformable bodies; conservation laws applied to an elastic continuum; generalized linear stress-strain behavior with applications. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Theory of Plasticity Theory of Plasticity 3 The fundamentals of the theory of plasticity; the classical theory of plasticity; the classical theory and modern continuum theories of large elasto-plastic deformations. .
Mechanical Engineering^Finite Elements Finite Elements 3 Theory of finite elements; applications to general engineering systems considered as assemblages of discrete elements. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Mechanics of Composite Materials Mechanics of Composite Materials 3 Analysis of micromechanical and macromechanical behavior of composite materials with emphasis on fiber-reinforced composite; prediction of properties; stiffness and strength theories; laminated beams and plates; dynamic behavior; environmental effects. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Fracture Mechanics and Mechanisms Fracture Mechanics and Mechanisms 3 Fracture mechanics and mechanisms and the microstructural origins of toughness in metals, polymers and composites. .
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Dynamics of Physical Systems Advanced Dynamics of Physical Systems 3 Newtonian dynamics, rotating coordinate systems; Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics; gyroscopic mechanics, other applications. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Numerical Modeling in Fluid Mechanics Numerical Modeling in Fluid Mechanics 3 Fundamental concepts in development of numerical models for fluid flow with applications to steady and unsteady flows. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Nuclear Reactor Engineering Nuclear Reactor Engineering 3 Reactor power distribution; thermal and exposure limits; critical heat flux and pressure design; neutronic/thermal hydraulic relationships; transient/accident analysis.
Mechanical Engineering^Foundations of CAD Foundations of CAD 3 Topics fundamental to the creation of CAD, engineering visualization, and virtual reality based engineering software. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Mechanical Engineering^Geometric Modeling Geometric Modeling 3 Study of the mathematics behind the creation of complex shapes for CAD using curves, surfaces, and solids.
Mechanical Engineering^Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering V 1-3
Mechanical Engineering^Control Systems Control Systems 3 Analysis and design of feedback control systems. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Veterinary^Skeletal Preparation Skeletal Preparation 1
Veterinary^Veterinary Medicine as a Career Veterinary Medicine as a Career 2 00 or higher. Current issues in veterinary medicine; ethical, financial and personal aspects of the veterinary practice.
Veterinary^Animals, Society, and the Veterinarian Animals, Society, and the Veterinarian 1 Active participation in activities designed to enhance personal growth, character development and leadership skills.
Veterinary^International Veterinary Medicine International Veterinary Medicine 1 Important issues and constraints facing the global community.
Veterinary^Communication Skills Communication Skills V 1-3 Exercises designed to enhance communication and relational skills.
Veterinary^Global Studies Global Studies V 1 to 6 Preceptorship in the US or overseas, under direct supervision of veterinarian, agriculture or public health professional; related to international veterinary medicine.
Veterinary^Reverence for Life Reverence for Life 1 Connections between humans and animals; discussions related to use of animals in Western societies; social issues related to veterinary medicine.
Veterinary^Research Orientation and Resource Research Orientation and Resource 1 Resources and important issues for identifying and developing a focused area of scholarly activity in biomedical research.
Veterinary^Research Issues, Ethics, and Literacy Research Issues, Ethics, and Literacy 1
Veterinary^Veterinary Microscopic Anatomy Veterinary Microscopic Anatomy 4 Microscopic functional morphology of the cell, tissues, and selected organ systems of domestic animals.
Veterinary^Veterinary Anatomy I Veterinary Anatomy I 5 Detailed macroscopic functional morphology of the dog with comparison to other domestic animals; developmental anatomy of selected organ systems.
Veterinary^Veterinary Anatomy II Veterinary Anatomy II 4 Detailed macroscopic functional morphology of domestic animals.
Veterinary^Veterinary Cell Physiology Veterinary Cell Physiology 4 Cell physiology focusing on endocrine, paracrine, and neurotransmission signaling processes, transcriptional and translational control, and methodologies relevant to medicine.
Veterinary^Small Animal Applied Anatomy and Surgical Techniques Small Animal Applied Anatomy and Surgical Techniques 2 Applied anatomy of small animals including surgical anatomy.
Veterinary^Large Animal Applied Anatomy and Surgical Techniques Large Animal Applied Anatomy and Surgical Techniques 2 Applied anatomy of large animals including surgical anatomy.
Veterinary^Veterinary Physiology Veterinary Physiology 5 Physiology of domestic animals. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Veterinary^Introduction to Veterinary Neurology Introduction to Veterinary Neurology 3 Neuroanatomical and neurophysiological bases of veterinary neurology, emphasizing central and peripheral sensory and motor systems. .
Veterinary^Fundamentals of Pharmacology Fundamentals of Pharmacology 3 Fundamentals of pharmacology, including pharmacokinetics , receptor theory and general mechanisms of drug action.
Veterinary^Veterinary Toxicology Veterinary Toxicology 3 Pharmacology and toxicology of the systems of domestic animals. Continuation of VET MED 522P.
Veterinary^Clinical Veterinary Pharmacology Clinical Veterinary Pharmacology 3 Clinical pharmacology of domestic animal species.
Veterinary^Animal Behavior for the Practicing Veterinarian Animal Behavior for the Practicing Veterinarian 1
Veterinary^Domestic and Exotic Animal Behavior Domestic and Exotic Animal Behavior 2 Focus on the medical relevance of behaviors that can cause diseases, and diseases that can lead to behavior problems in domestic and exotic animals. . Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Veterinary^Veterinary Immunology Veterinary Immunology 3 Immunology for the professional veterinary student.
Veterinary^Veterinary Virology Veterinary Virology 3 Virology for the professional veterinary student.
Veterinary^Veterinary Bacteriology Veterinary Bacteriology 4 Bacteria that produce disease in animals.
Veterinary^Veterinary Parasitology Veterinary Parasitology 4 Arthropods, protozoa, and helminths of veterinary importance; their host-parasite relationship and control.
Veterinary^Diseases of Wildlife Diseases of Wildlife 2 Management principles, epidemiology, pathology, treatment, and control of diseases in wild birds, fish, and mammals.
Veterinary^Veterinary Medicine and Human Health Veterinary Medicine and Human Health 2 Preparation for veterinary students in public health and food hygiene.
Veterinary^General Pathology General Pathology 3 Structural and functional alterations in disease; elementary oncology. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Veterinary^Systemic Pathology Systemic Pathology 6 Principles of system and organ response to injury, and the effects of injury/disease on the animal host.
Veterinary^Small Animal Medicine I Small Animal Medicine I 5 Diagnosis and treatment of small animal diseases.
Veterinary^Small Animal Medicine II Small Animal Medicine II 3 Diagnosis and treatment of small animal diseases. Continuation of VET MED 551P.
Veterinary^Small Animal Surgery Small Animal Surgery 3 Principles of surgical techniques and small animal surgery.
Veterinary^Small Animal Surgery Lab Small Animal Surgery Lab 1 Surgical exercises using small animals.
Veterinary^Small Animal Clinical Problem Solving Small Animal Clinical Problem Solving 2 Case-based investigation of small animal clinical presentations, diagnosis, and treatment plans.
Veterinary^Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Elective Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Elective 1 Instruction of advanced surgical techniques, primarily involving canine and feline soft tissue.
Veterinary^Small Animal Surgery Elective II Small Animal Surgery Elective II 1 Small animal orthopedic surgical exercises.
Veterinary^Diseases and Management of Pet and Wild Birds Diseases and Management of Pet and Wild Birds 2 Management and handling, diagnosis and treatment of various disease conditions of pet and wild birds.
Veterinary^Special Animal Medicine Special Animal Medicine V 1-3 Handling, restraint, care, normative features, procedures and diseases of unusual animals as pets or those used in food production or research.
Veterinary^Clinical Specialties Clinical Specialties V 1-4 This course includes clinical disciplines that are not considered core internal medicine, such as ophthalmology and dermatology.
Veterinary^Complementary and Alternative Veterinary Medicine Complementary and Alternative Veterinary Medicine 1 Presentation of complementary and alternative veterinary medicine theories and techniques.
Veterinary^Population Theriogenology - Food Animal Population Theriogenology - Food Animal 3 Population theriogenology in food animal or mixed animal practice.
Veterinary^Applied Comparative Reproductive Physiology Applied Comparative Reproductive Physiology 1 Applied comparative reproduction physiology of domestic animals.
Veterinary^Animal Handling and Orientation Animal Handling and Orientation 2 Introduction to clinical restraint procedures, physical exam and treatment procedures, and clinical behavior and management.
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal Medicine I Agricultural Animal Medicine I 4 Infectious and non-infectious conditions of agricultural animals.
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal Medicine II Agricultural Animal Medicine II 3 Infectious and non-infectious conditions of agricultural animals; introduction to performance medicine. Continuation of VET MED 569P.
Veterinary^Theriogenology Theriogenology 3 Diagnosis, symptomatology, and treatment of reproductive disorders.
Veterinary^Large Animal Surgery Large Animal Surgery 2 Large animal surgical techniques.
Veterinary^Surgery Laboratory III Surgery Laboratory III 1 Surgical exercises using large animals.
Veterinary^Equine Lameness Equine Lameness 2 Principles of diagnosis and treatment of musculoskeletal disorders of the horse.
Veterinary^Clinical Techniques in Theriogenology Clinical Techniques in Theriogenology 1 Canine, bovine, equine, bull breeding, stallion breeding, and obstetrics.
Veterinary^Emerging and Exotic Diseases of Animals Emerging and Exotic Diseases of Animals 1 To increase understanding of emerging and exotic diseases of animals among veterinary students.
Veterinary^Herd Production Medicine Herd Production Medicine 2 Fundamentals of developing and providing business-to-business professional services to commercial scale livestock operations.
Veterinary^Veterinary Equine Medicine Veterinary Equine Medicine 3 Discussion of clinical presentation, diagnosis and treatment of common medical diseases of horses.
Veterinary^Advanced Equine Medicine Advanced Equine Medicine 2 Advanced topics in pathophysiology, clinical signs, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of common medical problems of the horse.
Veterinary^Basic Nutrition Basic Nutrition 1 Introduction to the concepts of basic nutrition designed for the first year veterinary student.
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal Problems Seminar Agricultural Animal Problems Seminar 1
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal On-Farm Clinical Experience Agricultural Animal On-Farm Clinical Experience 1
Veterinary^Epidemiology Epidemiology 2 Minimally quantitative survey in which health is framed as a population phenomena.
Veterinary^Principles of Surgery Principles of Surgery 1 Principles of surgery for the professional veterinary student.
Veterinary^Clinical Anesthesiology Clinical Anesthesiology 2 Clinical anesthesiology for the professional veterinary student.
Veterinary^Radiology Radiology 3 Introduction to radiography and diagnostic radiology.
Veterinary^Clinical Pathology Clinical Pathology 3 Laboratory diagnostic procedures and interpretation.
Veterinary^Veterinary Clinical Nutrition Veterinary Clinical Nutrition V 1-3
Veterinary^Practice Management Practice Management 2 A correlation of the veterinary medical and business aspects of practice management.
Veterinary^Small Animal Transfusion Therapy Small Animal Transfusion Therapy 1 Blood collection, storage, pretransfusion testing, component therapy and transfusion reactions.
Veterinary^Pain and Analgesics Pain and Analgesics 2 Supplemental core course for DVM students; anatomy and physiology of pain; recognition and treatment of pain in veterinary patients.
Veterinary^Internship in Veterinary Medicine Internship in Veterinary Medicine V 1-3 Work experience related to academic learning; under supervision of veterinary professionals and/or faculty.
Veterinary^Introduction to Clinics Introduction to Clinics 1 Introduction to the practice of clinical veterinary medicine and surgery within the Veterinary Teaching Hospital including records, presentation and protocol.
Veterinary^Scientific Writing and Presentation Scientific Writing and Presentation 1 Independent study, special projects, and/or internships. Students must have graduate degree-seeking status and should check with their major advisor before enrolling in 600 credit, which cannot be used toward the core graded credits required for a graduate degree.
Veterinary^Clinical Elective at Oregon State University Clinical Elective at Oregon State University V 1-4
Veterinary^Small Animal Community Practice Medicine Small Animal Community Practice Medicine V 1 to 4 Required clinical experience with the small animal community practice service in the small animal clinic of the Veterinary Medicine Hospital.
Veterinary^Small Animal Referral Medicine Small Animal Referral Medicine V 1 to 4 Required clinical experience with the small animal referral medicine service in the small animal clinic of the Veterinary Medicine Hospital.
Veterinary^Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery V 1 to 4 Required clinical experience with the soft tissue surgery service in the small animal clinic of the Veterinary Medicine Hospital.
Veterinary^Small Animal Orthopedic Surgery Small Animal Orthopedic Surgery V 1 to 14 Required clinical experience with the small animal orthopedic surgery service in the small animal clinic of the Veterinary Medicine Hospital.
Veterinary^Small Animal Clinical Neurology Small Animal Clinical Neurology V 1 to 4
Veterinary^Small Animal Orthopedic Surgery Elective Small Animal Orthopedic Surgery Elective V 1-4
Veterinary^Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Elective Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Elective V 1-4
Veterinary^Small Animal Referral Medicine Elective Small Animal Referral Medicine Elective V 1-4
Veterinary^Small Animal Community Practice Elective Small Animal Community Practice Elective V 1-4
Veterinary^Small Animal Medicine - Special Topics Small Animal Medicine - Special Topics V 1-4
Veterinary^Exotic Animal Medicine Exotic Animal Medicine V 1-4
Veterinary^Small Animal Clinical Neurology Elective Small Animal Clinical Neurology Elective V 1-3 Rotation will emphasize neuroanatomical localization, differential diagnosis, diagnostic testing, and treatments.
Veterinary^Clinical Oncology Clinical Oncology V 1 to 4
Veterinary^Clinical Cardiology Clinical Cardiology V 1 to 4
Veterinary^Equine Surgery Clinical Rotation Equine Surgery Clinical Rotation V 2-6 Required rotation through the Equine Surgery Services of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Veterinary^Equine Medicine Clinical Rotation Equine Medicine Clinical Rotation V 2-6 Required rotation through the Equine Medicine Services of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal Clinical Rotation Agricultural Animal Clinical Rotation V 2-6 Elective rotation for Agricultural Animal Medical, Surgical, and Ambulatory Service of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Veterinary^Population Medicine Population Medicine V 1 to 4 Required rotation for agricultural animal species emphasis through the population medicine laboratory of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Veterinary^Large Animal Theriogenology - Special Topics Large Animal Theriogenology - Special Topics V 1-4
Veterinary^Agricultural Animal Special Topics Agricultural Animal Special Topics V 1-4
Veterinary^Preventive Medicine at Canine Center Preventive Medicine at Canine Center V 1-4
Veterinary^Equine Medicine Elective Equine Medicine Elective V 1-4
Veterinary^Equine Surgery Elective Equine Surgery Elective V 1-4
Veterinary^Equine Track Equine Track V 1-4 Clinical experience with the Equine Surgery Service of the Large Animal Clinic, Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Veterinary^Anesthesia Case Management Anesthesia Case Management V 1-4 Required rotation through the Clinical Anesthesia Service of the Small Animal Clinic and Large Animal Clinic of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
Veterinary^Small Animal Critical Care Small Animal Critical Care V 1 to 4
Veterinary^Small Animal Intensive Care Small Animal Intensive Care V 1 to 4 Required rotation for all students through the small animal intensive care unit.
Veterinary^Emergency and Critical Care Emergency and Critical Care V 1-4 Required rotation for all students through the large animal emergency and critical care unit.
Veterinary^Veterinary Research Practicum Veterinary Research Practicum V 1-8
Veterinary^Guided Preceptorship Guided Preceptorship V 1-4 Guided preceptorship in an accepted extramural clinical or laboratory setting.
Veterinary^Government, Corporate, and Zoological Practice Elective Government, Corporate, and Zoological Practice Elective V 1-6
Veterinary^Laboratory Animal Medicine Laboratory Animal Medicine V 1-4
Veterinary^Avian Medicine Avian Medicine V 1-4 Laboratory diagnosis and pathology of avian diseases.
Education^Learning and Development Learning and Development 3 Analysis of the connections among learning theories, human development theories, and educational practice in today?s PK-12 classrooms.
Education^Introduction to Middle Level Education Introduction to Middle Level Education 3 Introduction to developmentally appropriate organization, structures, curriculum, and instruction in the middle grades.
Education^Fundamentals of Instruction Fundamentals of Instruction 2 Introduction to lesson and unit plans, state standards, instructional models, and basic strategies for using and integrating technology.
Education^Survey of Elementary Reading and Language Arts Survey of Elementary Reading and Language Arts 3 Attitudes, knowledge, and skills needed for successful teaching of reading and language arts.
Education^Survey of Children's Literature Survey of Children's Literature 3 Types, values, selection of children's literature; role of teacher in facilitating children's experiences with books.
Education^Classroom Management Classroom Management 2 Strategies for developing positive and supportive classroom learning environments.
Education^Initial Practicum Experience Initial Practicum Experience 2 Classroom experience providing observation, reflection and gradual classroom involvement and teaching responsibility.
Education^Elementary Reading Methods Elementary Reading Methods 3 Teaching methods, materials, and content in elementary school reading.
Education^Early Literacy Early Literacy 3 Designed for pre-service teachers to link assessment and instruction and guide the development of early reading and writing skills.
Education^Reading and Writing in Grades - Reading and Writing in Grades - 3 Designed for pre-service teachers to link assessment and instruction and assist upper-elementary students to read and write more effectively.
Education^Diversity in Education Diversity in Education 3 Social, historical, and philosophical foundations of gender, socioeconomic, linguistic, and cultural diversity in schools.
Education^Introduction to English as a Second Language (ESL) Introduction to English as a Second Language (ESL) 3 Foundations of ESL with attention to basic concepts of second language processing in educational settings.
Education^Communicating in Diverse Classrooms Communicating in Diverse Classrooms 3 Selected topics dealing with linguistic diversity, cross-cultural communication, language development and language use.
Education^Teaching Elementary Mathematics Teaching Elementary Mathematics 3 Teaching methods, materials, and content in elementary and middle school mathematics.
Education^Teaching Elementary Science Teaching Elementary Science 3 Teaching methods, materials, and content in elementary and middle school science.
Education^Teaching Elementary Social Studies Teaching Elementary Social Studies 3 Teaching methods, materials, and content in elementary and middle school social studies.
Education^Integrating Fine Arts into K- Curriculum Integrating Fine Arts into K- Curriculum 3 Integrating the range of fine arts into K-8 curriculum; designed for preservice and inservice general K-8 teachers.
Education^Practicum in Bilingual/ESL Education Practicum in Bilingual/ESL Education 3
Education^Instructional Practicum I Instructional Practicum I V 1 to 6
Education^Social Foundations of Elementary Curriculum Social Foundations of Elementary Curriculum 2 The school; historical, and philosophical foundations of education; school law and professional certification.
Education^Linguistics for Educators Linguistics for Educators 3 Use of linguistics to better understand second language learning and teaching and the physical aspects of acquiring a language.
Education^Instructional Practicum II Instructional Practicum II V 1 to 6
Education^Fundamentals of Curriculum and Assessment for Teaching English Language Learners Fundamentals of Curriculum and Assessment for Teaching English Language Learners 3 Research in curriculum development for and assessment of language minority students.
Education^Theoretical Foundations of Bilingual/ESL Education Theoretical Foundations of Bilingual/ESL Education 3 Theoretical foundations related to research and instructional strategies for effective schooling of language minority students. Credit not granted for TCH LRN 410 and 510. Credit not granted for both TCH LRN 410 and TCH LRN 510. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Education^Bilingual Methods and Materials Across Content Areas Bilingual Methods and Materials Across Content Areas 3 Approaches, methods, and materials across content areas for the bilingual classroom.
Education^Introduction to ESL for K- Teachers Introduction to ESL for K- Teachers V 2-3 Introduction to teaching ESL students for K-8 teachers.
Education^Methods and Materials for Bilingual/ESL Education Methods and Materials for Bilingual/ESL Education 3 Research and instructional methods related to English language acquisition across content areas. Credit not granted for both TCH LRN 414 and TCH LRN 514.
Education^Student Teaching Student Teaching V 6 to 16 To begin student teaching the candidate must have paid certification fees and have a currently valid teacher certificate application with character and fitness supplement on file; completed with a C or better all course work for the teacher certificate; received fingerprinting clearance from Washington State Patrol, FBI, and Office of Professional Practices; earned a 2.5 gpa overall, in endorsement area and professional core courses. Placement by interview only at approved sites. Supervised teaching in public schools including seminars reflecting on effective teaching and professional certification.
Education^Conceptual Aspects of Mathematics Conceptual Aspects of Mathematics 3 Exploration of conceptual models for thinking about mathematical ideas; activities and discussions of mathematical thinking and instruction. .
Education^Middle Level Mathematics Methods Middle Level Mathematics Methods 3 Research-based and standards-aligned methods for teaching mathematics in the middle grades.
Education^Proportional Reasoning Proportional Reasoning 3 Examination of work samples; identifying student?s incomplete understanding of fundamental concepts; design instruction to develop a deeper understanding of rational numbers.
Education^Elementary Methods of Educational Technology Elementary Methods of Educational Technology 2 Consideration of all technologies in K-8 schools, applications for their use, some production techniques and instructional methodologies.
Education^Curriculum, Instruction and Content Literacy Methods Curriculum, Instruction and Content Literacy Methods 3 Development of curriculum, instruction and content literacy materials and methods for teaching in the secondary school classroom.
Education^Teaching English Language Learners for Secondary Teachers Teaching English Language Learners for Secondary Teachers 3 Practical knowledge for teaching ELL students in a variety of instructional contexts.
Education^Secondary Methods of Educational Technology Secondary Methods of Educational Technology 2 Integration of technologies for teaching and learning within the 9-12 classrooms; hands-on development of technology enhanced activities and lessons.
Education^Adolescence, Community, and School Adolescence, Community, and School 3 Understanding the socio-cultural dynamics of adolescence and youth cultures and the roles they play in secondary schools.
Education^Advanced Practicum Advanced Practicum 2 Field experience with classroom observation and teaching prior to student teaching; weekly seminar included.
Education^Special Education, Transition, and Classroom Management for Secondary General Education Teachers Special Education, Transition, and Classroom Management for Secondary General Education Teachers 3 Overview of special education topics, transition practices, and classroom management techniques for general education classrooms.
Education^Multicultural Education in a Global Society Multicultural Education in a Global Society 3 Multicultural and multilingual education from a global perspective; development of multicultural curriculum. Credit not granted for more than one of TCH LRN 480, 580, 582. Credit not granted for both TCH LRN 480 and TCH LRN 580. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Education^Integrating Health and Fitness into K- Curriculum Integrating Health and Fitness into K- Curriculum 3 Integrating health and fitness concepts into the K-8 curriculum; issues of abuse; designed for preservice and inservice K-8 teachers.
Education^Global Geography Global Geography 3 Open to non-education majors. World geography as a global perspective; education in the contemporary world: the interaction between human societies and the natural environment.
Education^Advanced Practicum Advanced Practicum 3 Intensive practicum integrating educational theory with teaching in classroom contexts.
Education^Topics in In-Service Education Topics in In-Service Education V 1-3
Education^Bilingual/ESL Education Bilingual/ESL Education 3
Education^Assessment for Teaching and Learning Assessment for Teaching and Learning V 2-3 Instruction in sound assessment practices for preservice and inservice graduate students.
Education^ESL Methods and Material for Secondary Content Teachers ESL Methods and Material for Secondary Content Teachers 2 Research-based ESL strategies and methods for pre-service and secondary content area teachers.
Education^Advanced Study in Linguistics for Educators Advanced Study in Linguistics for Educators 3 Use of linguistics to better understand second language learning and teaching and the physical aspects of acquiring a language.
Education^ESL Methods for General Educators (K-) ESL Methods for General Educators (K-) 2 Research-based ESL strategies and methods for pre-service and experienced teachers.
Education^Multicultural Classroom Instruction and Management Multicultural Classroom Instruction and Management 4 Instructional and management strategies for maximizing students' opportunities to learn in a multicultural setting.
Education^Seminar in Literacy in Multicultural Settings I Seminar in Literacy in Multicultural Settings I 3 Multicultural perspective to curriculum development and classroom literacy practices.
Education^Seminar in Literacy in Multicultural Settings II Seminar in Literacy in Multicultural Settings II 3 Multicultural perspective to curriculum development and classroom literacy practices.
Education^Research in Curriculum and Assessment for Bilingual/ESL Education Research in Curriculum and Assessment for Bilingual/ESL Education 3 Research in curriculum development for and assessment of language minority students.
Education^Theoretical Foundations of Bilingual/ESL Education Theoretical Foundations of Bilingual/ESL Education 3 Theoretical foundations related to research and instructional strategies for effective schooling of language minority students. Credit not granted for TCH LRN 410 and 510. Credit not granted for both TCH LRN 410 and TCH LRN 510. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Education^Theoretical Foundations of Education Research Theoretical Foundations of Education Research 3 Identification and use of theoretical components to guide and explain education research.
Education^Language and Cultural Factors in Mathematics Language and Cultural Factors in Mathematics 3 Research and instructional strategies related to linguistic and cultural influences on learning math.
Education^Seminar in Middle School Education Seminar in Middle School Education 3 For experienced teachers. Curriculum patterns and recent research regarding instruction and materials in the contemporary middle school.
Education^Methods and Materials for Bilingual/ESL Education Methods and Materials for Bilingual/ESL Education 3 Research and instructional methods related to English language acquisition across content areas. Credit not granted for both TCH LRN 414 and TCH LRN 514.
Education^The Education of Cultural and Linguistic Minority Students The Education of Cultural and Linguistic Minority Students 3 Issues in the education of language minority students.
Education^Advanced Study in Computer-Assisted Language Learning Advanced Study in Computer-Assisted Language Learning 3 Research, theory, and practice in computer-assisted language learning.
Education^Educational Technology in K- Schools Educational Technology in K- Schools 2 Technology standards for teachers, technology use in schools, production techniques and instructional methods.
Education^Integrating Technology into the Curriculum Integrating Technology into the Curriculum 3 Examination and articulation of the potential for new technologies to expand learning opportunities.
Education^Instructional Media Production I Instructional Media Production I 3 Instructional media development, emphasizing the theory and methods of instructional design, digital media production and evaluation.
Education^Topics in Special Student Populations Topics in Special Student Populations V 1-4
Education^Classroom Management Seminar Classroom Management Seminar V 2-3 Contemporary issues in management of elementary, middle school, and secondary classrooms; issues of abuse.
Education^Research in Multicultural Education Research in Multicultural Education 3 Research and instructional practices focusing on multicultural education.
Education^Seminar in Teacher Education Instruction Seminar in Teacher Education Instruction 1
Education^Literacy within the Disciplines Literacy within the Disciplines 3 Explores literacy research and practices that enhance the learning of various disciplines taught in K-12 settings.
Education^Place-Based Education Place-Based Education 3 Theory and practice of place-based education with an emphasis on community-based action research and curriculum planning.
Education^Innovations in Reading Innovations in Reading V 2-3 Graduate-level counterpart of TCH LRN 431; additional requirements.
Education^Frameworks for Research in Mathematics and Science Education Frameworks for Research in Mathematics and Science Education 3 Exploration of research frameworks and methodologies specific to mathematics and science education.
Education^Children's Literature in the Curriculum Children's Literature in the Curriculum 2 Theory and classroom applications for selecting and using literature and storytelling in content areas; reading, writing, language development, the arts.
Education^Middle Level Mathematics Pedagogy and Philosophy Middle Level Mathematics Pedagogy and Philosophy 3 Middle-school philosophy; understanding of effective standards and research-based instructional methods.
Education^Conceptualization of Proportional Thinking Conceptualization of Proportional Thinking 3 Investigation of the development of K-14 students' understanding of proportional reasoning.
Education^Gender, Power and Education Gender, Power and Education 3 Interdisciplinary focus on the relationships among gender, power and education.
Education^Cultural Studies in Education Cultural Studies in Education 3 Historical and conceptual background of the field of cultural studies.
Education^Seminar in Language, Literacy, and Culture Seminar in Language, Literacy, and Culture 3 Interrelationships between schools, literacy, and student cultural background.
Education^Writing Across the Curriculum Writing Across the Curriculum 3 Writing for learning at grade levels K-12.
Education^Innovations in Language Arts Innovations in Language Arts 3 The most recent developments in language arts instruction for pre-service and in-service teachers K-12.
Education^Elementary School Social Studies Elementary School Social Studies 3 For candidates admitted to graduate teacher preparation and experienced teachers. Elementary structures of various social sciences; research findings related to instruction; classroom applications and materials.
Education^Teacher Professional Certification: Pre-Assessment Seminar Teacher Professional Certification: Pre-Assessment Seminar V 1-3
Education^Teacher Professional Certification: Researching Exemplary Practices Teacher Professional Certification: Researching Exemplary Practices V 1-3
Education^Teacher Professional Certification: Culminating Seminar Teacher Professional Certification: Culminating Seminar V 1-3
Education^Teaching Children's and Young Adult Literature Teaching Children's and Young Adult Literature 3 Trends, issues, and research in children's and young adult literature.
Education^Teaching Writing Teaching Writing 3 Theory and research relevant to instructional approaches and practices for teaching writing in K-12 schools.
Education^Teaching Folk Literature to Children and Adolescents Teaching Folk Literature to Children and Adolescents 3 Folk literature as a genre in child and adolescent literature; curriculum applications; reading, language development, social studies, creative expression.
Education^Teaching Adolescent Literature Teaching Adolescent Literature 3 Evaluating, selecting, and using literature for middle school and teenage students.
Education^Communicating in a Multilingual Society Communicating in a Multilingual Society 3 Study of language in social and educational context and its relation to cultural and linguistic diversity.
Education^Second Language Learning and Literacy Second Language Learning and Literacy 3 Research on second language teaching and learning in literacy education with a focus on English language learners in US schools.
Education^Psychology of Reading Psychology of Reading V 2-3 Psychological, perceptual, motivational, developmental and physiological aspects of reading.
Education^Literacy Development I Literacy Development I 3 For candidates admitted to graduate teacher preparation. Review of current research and approaches to instruction in the development of literacy in elementary and middle grades.
Education^Assessment and Instruction for Reading Assessment and Instruction for Reading 4 Evaluation techniques and instructional practices for impacting the reading achievement of K-12 students.
Education^Sociolinguistics Sociolinguistics 3 Interaction between language use and sociopolitical and cultural contexts; cultural and linguistic delivery and educational opportunity.
Education^Seminar in Literacy Development Seminar in Literacy Development 3
Education^Literacy Development II Literacy Development II 3 Review of current research and approaches to instruction in the development of literacy in elementary and middle grades.
Education^Research in Reading Research in Reading 3 Exploration of qualitative and quantitative reading research covering topics of current and historical importance.
Education^Improving Reading Comprehension (K-) Improving Reading Comprehension (K-) 3 Key theoretical concepts and their implications for improved comprehension instruction, for K-12.
Education^Readings in Cultural Studies and Social Thought in Education Readings in Cultural Studies and Social Thought in Education 1
Education^Research in Teaching Research in Teaching 3
Education^Elementary School Mathematics Elementary School Mathematics 3 Research on curriculum and instruction issues in elementary school mathematics.
Education^Foundations of Literacy: Theory and Research Foundations of Literacy: Theory and Research 3 Interdisciplinary inquiry into the various foundations of literacy.
Education^Elementary School Mathematics Methods Elementary School Mathematics Methods 3 Introduction to research, theory, and methods of teaching K-8 mathematics; emphasis on integrating theory and practice.
Education^Introduction to Scholarly Inquiry Introduction to Scholarly Inquiry 1 Introduction to the Ed.M program including the scholarship and research requirements and the role of students and action research.
Education^Democratic Education Democratic Education 3 Rationale and skill to assist teachers in making classrooms more democratic.
Education^Social Foundations of Language and Literacy Social Foundations of Language and Literacy 3 Social and cultural theories of language and literacy.
Education^Psychological Foundations of Language and Literacy Psychological Foundations of Language and Literacy 3 Psychological foundations of language and Literacy.
Education^Critical Analysis of Children's and Young Adult Literature Critical Analysis of Children's and Young Adult Literature 3 Multicultural analysis of children's and adolescent literature and its pedagogical and sociopolitical implications and possibilities.
Education^Theory and Research in Electronic Literacies Theory and Research in Electronic Literacies 3 . Ideas of literacy and effects of technology on literacy and policy, particularly those issues addressing diverse learners.
Education^Elementary School Science Elementary School Science 3 Theories and research underlying science programs with classroom implications.
Education^Elementary School Science Methods Elementary School Science Methods 3 Theoretical base to design and implement appropriate standards-based elementary science instruction.
Education^Theory and Research in Computer-Assisted Language Learning Theory and Research in Computer-Assisted Language Learning 3 Information and tools needed to contribute to the CALL research literature.
Education^Science for All: An Individual and Multicultural Perspective Science for All: An Individual and Multicultural Perspective 3 Implications of cultural and individual diversity for understanding western scientific and mathematical thought; an activity-based, educational perspective.
Education^Globalization and Identity in Education Globalization and Identity in Education 3 Issues relating to the complexities of globalization and identity in education.
Education^Youth Cultures in Education Youth Cultures in Education 3 Analysis of how youth cultures operate in society and how they are practiced in schools.
Education^Curriculum Theory Curriculum Theory 3 Curriculum theory as the interdisciplinary study of educational experience.
Education^National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) I National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) I 3 Development of evidence aligned with National Board standards and allowance for reflection on the impact of teaching and student learning. Required background must include: Bachelor's degree from accredited institution, valid state teaching/counseling certificate, completion of minimum 3 years successful full-time teaching in a U.S. P-12 school.
Education^National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) II National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) II 3 Construct/submit portfolio of evidence meeting national standards in classrooms for National Board Certification assessment. Required background must include: Bachelor's degree from accredited institution, valid state teaching/counseling certificate, completion of minimum 3 years successful full-time teaching in a U.S. P-12 school.
Education^Multicultural Education in a Global Society Multicultural Education in a Global Society 3 Multicultural and multilingual education from a global perspective; development of multicultural curriculum. Credit not granted for more than one of TCH LRN 480, 580, 582. Credit not granted for both TCH LRN 480 and TCH LRN 580. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Education^Learning and Development in Mathematics and Science Learning and Development in Mathematics and Science 3 This course explores and illustrates ?what we know? about various aspects of mathematical learning at various grade levels.
Education^Scholarly Writing Scholarly Writing 3 Interdisciplinary; supports students to write publication-quality manuscripts.
Education^Problem Solving in Elementary and Middle Level Education Problem Solving in Elementary and Middle Level Education 3 Integration of knowledge and skills to address complex cases in teaching and learning.
Education^Research in Teaching Mathematics and Science Research in Teaching Mathematics and Science 3 Development of an understanding for the research literature that is particularly related to mathematics and science teaching.
Education^Focused Reading and Conference in Math/Science Education Focused Reading and Conference in Math/Science Education V 1-3
Education^Seminar in Language, Literacy, and Technology Seminar in Language, Literacy, and Technology 1 Tools for professional development in the areas of research, teaching, and service. Seminar compliments required courses in the LLT doctoral student program.
Education^Environment, Culture and Education Environment, Culture and Education 3 Role of education in the social, ecological, and political conflicts between culture and environment.
Education^Action Research: Teachers as Research Action Research: Teachers as Research 3 Theoretical concepts, research, issues, models, and strategies for implementation of action research.
Education^Race, Identity and Representation in Education Race, Identity and Representation in Education 3 Interdisciplinary research in race, identity and representations in education.
Education^Research Internship in Math/Science Education Research Internship in Math/Science Education V 2-3
Education^Social Theory in Education Social Theory in Education 3 Social theory and how it applies to intellectual work in education.
Education^Pre-internship and Seminar Pre-internship and Seminar 2 Instructional practice in diverse classroom settings and reflection on that practice.
Education^Integrating Fine Arts into K- Curriculum Integrating Fine Arts into K- Curriculum 2 Integrating Fine Arts into K-8 curriculum; designed for pre-service MIT.
Education^Internship and Seminar Internship and Seminar 10 Instructional practice in classroom settings, reflection on practice; professional certification.
Education^Topics in In-Service Education Topics in In-Service Education V 1-3
Education^Topics in In-Service Education Topics in In-Service Education V 1-3
Education^Research Seminar in Mathematics and Science Education Research Seminar in Mathematics and Science Education 1
Medicine^Medical Preceptorship Medical Preceptorship 1
Medicine^Seminar in Rural Health Seminar in Rural Health 1 Introduction for first-year medical students to primary care in rural environments.
Medicine^Microscopic Anatomy Microscopic Anatomy 4 Description and microscopic examination of cell types, tissues, and major organs of the human body.
Medicine^Anatomy and Embryology I Anatomy and Embryology I 5 Presents formation and 3-dimensional relationships of major structures in the human body; human phenotype examined in dissection laboratory and living anatomy; focus is on trunk anatomy.
Medicine^Mechanisms in Cellular Physiology Mechanisms in Cellular Physiology 3 Fundamental cell physiology mechanisms: ionic, electrical gradients, sensory receptors, autonomic nervous system, energy metabolism, epithelial transport; gastrointestinal motility and secretions.
Medicine^Introduction to Clinical Medicine I Introduction to Clinical Medicine I 1 Instruction in communications skills and interview techniques to form the basis for the eventual doctor-patient relationship.
Medicine^Biochemistry I Biochemistry I 3 Focus on genome information, gene functions, genetic information stored, mobilized, and used, regulation, molecular medicine, genomic therapies.
Medicine^Systems of Human Behavior Systems of Human Behavior 3 Physical and psychological development of the individual; conceptual systems and models of behavior related to medicine.
Medicine^Introduction to Clinical Medicine II Introduction to Clinical Medicine II 2 Communication skills as related to patients and dealing with problem identification and patient history.
Medicine^Introduction to Immunology Introduction to Immunology 2 Principles of immunology and their relationship to human medicine.
Medicine^Biochemistry II Biochemistry II 2 Continuation of MEDS 514P.
Medicine^Anatomy and Embryology II Anatomy and Embryology II 5 Gross anatomy; focus on head and neck anatomy, including skull, pharynx, and larynx; audition and balance. Continuation of MEDS 511P.
Medicine^Nervous System Nervous System 5 Normal structure and function of the nervous system, including the eye.
Medicine^Microbiology and Infectious Disease Microbiology and Infectious Disease 6 Biology of microbial pathogens and the mechanisms of pathogenesis; clinical manifestations, epidemiology and general principles of diagnosis, therapy and prevention of infectious disease.
Medicine^Introduction to Clinical Medicine III Introduction to Clinical Medicine III 2 The screening physical examination.
Medicine^Introduction to Cardiovascular Medicine Introduction to Cardiovascular Medicine 4 Introduction to cardiovascular medicine in preparation for caring for patients in hospitals and clinics.
Medicine^Respiratory Respiratory 3 Scientific foundations that underlie the function of the respiratory system.
Medicine^Introduction to Clinical Medicine IIA Introduction to Clinical Medicine IIA 3 Continued instruction in communications skills and interview techniques to form the basis for the eventual doctor-patient relationship.
Medicine^Principles of Pharmacology I Principles of Pharmacology I 3 In-depth physiology and pathophysiology of systems and the relevant pharmacology as it applies to these systems.
Medicine^Pathology IIA Pathology IIA 3 The pathogenesis of disease; cellular and molecular changes that lead to expression of a disease.
Medicine^Clinical Ethics Clinical Ethics 1 Clinical ethics and tools for ethical reasoning that support current and future work.
Medicine^Introduction to Clinical Medicine IIB Introduction to Clinical Medicine IIB 3 Continued instruction in communications skills and interview techniques to form the basis for the eventual doctor-patient relationship.
Medicine^Gastrointestinal Gastrointestinal 3 The gastrointestinal system and associated problems with this system.
Medicine^Hematology Hematology 2 Development and function of blood and the pathophysiology of the different types of disorders dealing with blood.
Medicine^Anatomy and Embryology - Musculoskeletal Anatomy and Embryology - Musculoskeletal 3 Anatomy and clinical lectures, gross anatomy labs, living anatomy/clinical correlation.
Medicine^Genetics Genetics 1 Principles of genetics and how they are utilized in current medical practice.
Medicine^Medicine, Health, and Society Medicine, Health, and Society 2 Health policy and public health and the relation to practicing medicine.
Medicine^Hormones and Nutrients Hormones and Nutrients 3 Hormone production and function, nutrients, and the pathology and clinical manifestations of endocrine and metabolic diseases.
Medicine^Pathology IIB Pathology IIB 1 Introduction of pathology in preparation for caring for patients in hospitals and clinics.
Medicine^Rheumatology Rheumatology 1 Immunology, anatomy, and introduction to clinical medicine to what will be seen in later medical education in clerkship rotations.
Medicine^Introduction to Clinical Medicine IIC Introduction to Clinical Medicine IIC 3 Continued instruction in communications skills and interview techniques to form the basis for the eventual doctor-patient relationship.
Medicine^The Urinary System The Urinary System 3 Anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology as it relates to the urinary tract.
Medicine^Brain and Behavior Brain and Behavior 2 Major psychiatric disorders defined; a systemic approach to differential diagnosis.
Medicine^Principles of Pharmacology II Principles of Pharmacology II 2 Introduction to drugs used to treat behavioral disorders, neurological disorders, and pain.
Medicine^Pathology IIC Pathology IIC 2 Perinatal pathology with focus on patients between conception and early infancy; encompasses the transition from a 'parasitic' existence in utero to independent viability outside the womb.
Medicine^Dermatology/Skin System Dermatology/Skin System 1 Anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, pathology, and immunology of the skin.
Medicine^Medical Information for Decision Making Medical Information for Decision Making 1 Medical literature for the purpose of primary research, diagnosis and therapeutic and preventative intervention.
Marketing^Professional Persuasive Communications Professional Persuasive Communications 3 Basic psychological principles of influence and the development of persuasive professional communication skills for career advancement and as life skills.
Marketing^Marketing Marketing 3 An introduction to the marketing process and the strategic managerial decisions that are made with regard to product, price, promotion, and distribution. Credit not allowed for MGTOP 101 if credit already earned in MKTG 360.
Marketing^Marketing Research Marketing Research 3 Use of secondary and primary data to facilitate marketing managers' decision-making capabilities; applied marketing research techniques including focus groups, surveys, experiments and statistical analyses; preparation of marketing research reports.
Marketing^Professional Sales Professional Sales 3 Theory, principles, and practices of professional sales with special attention to the business-to-business market.
Marketing^Consumer Behavior Consumer Behavior 3 Investigation of social processes affecting consumer decision-making and behavior; models of consumer behavior are covered, as are the psychological phenomena of learning, motivation, and attitude development, and the sociological influences of social class, reference groups and culture.
Marketing^Internet Marketing Internet Marketing 3 An examination of marketing's role in the Internet and electronic commerce.
Marketing^Product Management Product Management 3 Management of existing products and product lines, and design, development, pricing and marketing of new products in the firm.
Marketing^Public Policy and Marketing Public Policy and Marketing 3 The use of marketing principles and techniques to benefit society; the importance of marketing as it relates to government regulation of marketing structure, consumer protection, and consumer welfare.
Marketing^Retail Management Retail Management 3 Retailing system; organization, merchandising models, pricing, promotion, location, and control procedures; management decision processes.
Marketing^Promotion Management Promotion Management 3 An overview of the managerial approaches and theoretical perspectives relevant to planning, implementing, and evaluating integrated marketing communications strategies.
Marketing^Sales Management Sales Management 3 Sales management strategies and plans to achieve a firm's marketing objectives, including the hiring, firing, training, motivation, compensation, deployment, and evaluation of sales personnel.
Marketing^Business to Business Marketing Business to Business Marketing 3 Marketing strategies for creating customer and firm value in business-to-business markets.
Marketing^Independent Research Independent Research 3 Independent research project with faculty member including problem statement, literature review, hypotheses, data collection, and reporting of results.
Marketing^Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship 3 Concepts, issues, and techniques of new venture creation and entrepreneurship in a marketing context.
Marketing^Marketing Management Marketing Management 3 Integrative marketing capstone course; the evaluation and design of marketing strategy; covers industry, competitor, and customer analysis with the goal of recommending and implementing an appropriate marketing strategy.
Marketing^Marketing Internship Marketing Internship V 2-15
Marketing^Survey of Marketing Survey of Marketing 3 Marketing management; relevance of marketing to company profitability and consumer satisfaction; decision regarding price, product, promotion, and distribution.
Marketing^Marketing Strategy Marketing Strategy 3 Marketing analyses needed to recommend and implement a marketing strategy. Includes coverage of industry, competitor, and customer analysis as well as decision factors related to segmentation, positioning, and the marketing mix.
Marketing^Consumer Behavior Consumer Behavior 3 Marketing structure and behavior from economic and behavioral perspectives; social evaluation and behavioral implications of marketing strategy.
Marketing^Marketing Analytics Marketing Analytics 3 Development of marketing analytics skills utilizing large data sets to identify marketing and consumer trends in online and offline markets.
Marketing^New Product Marketing New Product Marketing 3 Introduction of new products that are based on new technology; exploration of actual products in the market.
Marketing^Seminar in Marketing Seminar in Marketing 3
Marketing^Promotional Management Promotional Management 3 Integrated promotion into the marketing plan; methods, organization, communications, media selection, and campaigns.
Marketing^Seminar in Consumer Behavior Seminar in Consumer Behavior 3 Advanced, doctoral-level topics in consumer behavior.
Marketing^Seminar in Marketing Management Seminar in Marketing Management 3 Advanced, doctoral-level topics in marketing management.
Marketing^Seminar in Marketing Theory Seminar in Marketing Theory 3 Advanced, doctoral-level topics in marketing theory.
Marketing^Seminar in Research Design Seminar in Research Design 3 Advanced, doctoral-level topics in research design.
Math^PRE-ALGEBRA PRE-ALGEBRA 3
Math^BEG ALGEBRA BEG ALGEBRA 3
Math^Intermediate Algebra Intermediate Algebra 3
Math^Basic Mathematics Basic Mathematics 2 Review of basic arithmetic and elementary algebra.
Math^Intermediate Algebra Intermediate Algebra 3 Fundamental algebraic operations and concepts.
Math^Algebra Methods and Introduction to Functions Algebra Methods and Introduction to Functions 3 Fundamental algebraic operations and concepts, linear systems and inequalities, polynomial and rational functions, introduction to exponential and logarithmic functions.
Math^Exploring Mathematics Exploring Mathematics 3 Nature and scope of modern mathematics, and its relationships to other disciplines.
Math^College Algebra College Algebra 3 Graphs, properties and applications of polynomial, rational, exponential and logarithmic functions. Credit not normally granted for both MATH 106 and 107.
Math^Precalculus Precalculus 4 Graphs, properties, and applications of polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions. Credit not normally granted for both MATH 107 and either MATH 106 or 108.
Math^Trigonometry Trigonometry 2 Graphs, properties and applications of trigonometric functions. Credit not normally granted for both MATH 108 and 107.
Math^Mathematics Acceleration Mathematics Acceleration 1 Individualized instruction on mathematical skills to enhance the mathematical background necessary for success in one of MATH 103, 106, or 171.
Math^Mathematics Tutorial for MATH Mathematics Tutorial for MATH 1 Student-centered group tutorial focusing on skill improvement for success in MATH 201.
Math^Math Tutorial Math Tutorial 2 Tutorial for MATH 105 focusing on concept development and mastery; skill proficieincy.
Math^Math Tutorial Math Tutorial 2 Tutorial for MATH 106 focusing on concept development and mastery; skill proficieincy.
Math^Calculus for Life Scientists Calculus for Life Scientists 4 Enrollment not allowed if credit already earned for MATH 171, 202, or 206. Differential and integral calculus with emphasis on life science applications. Credit not normally allowed for more than one of MATH 140, 171, 202, 206.
Math^Calculus for Middle School Teachers Calculus for Middle School Teachers 3 Differential and integral calculus in relation to middle school mathematics and real world problems through visualization, hands-on activities and technology.
Math^Calculus I Calculus I 4 Enrollment not allowed if credit already earned for MATH 140, 202, or 206. Differential and integral calculus of one variable with associated analytic geometry. Credit not normally allowed for more than one of MATH 140, 171, 202, 206.
Math^Calculus II Calculus II 4 Techniques and applications of one-variable calculus; estimations; series, derivative of a vector function. Credit not granted for both MATH 172 and 182.
Math^Honors Calculus II Honors Calculus II 4 Single variable calculus, series, with emphasis on conceptual development and problem solving. Credit not granted for both MATH 172 and 182.
Math^Mathematics for Business and Economics Mathematics for Business and Economics 3 Mathematical analysis using polynomial, exponential, and logarithmic functions; linear systems, linear programming and probability, for business and economic applications.
Math^Calculus for Business and Economics Calculus for Business and Economics 3 Enrollment not allowed if credit already earned for MATH 140, 171, or 206. Differential and integral calculus of the polynomial, exponential, and logarithmic functions. Credit not normally allowed for more than one of MATH 140, 171, 202, 206.
Math^Statistical Thinking Statistical Thinking 3 Scientific explanation; correlations and causality; presenting statistical evidence; graphical and numerical methods; chance and gambling; the bell-shaped distribution. .
Math^Calculus for Architects Calculus for Architects 3 Enrollment not allowed if credit already earned for MATH 140, 171, or 202. Calculus of elementary functions; trigonometry; applications to architecture. Credit not normally allowed for more than one of MATH 140, 171, 202, 206.
Math^Introduction to Statistical Methods Introduction to Statistical Methods 4 Introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics: t-tests, chi-square tests, one-way ANOVA, simple linear regression and correlation. .
Math^Discrete Structures Discrete Structures 3 Discrete mathematics, trees, graphs, elementary logic, and combinatorics with application to computer science. .
Math^Introductory Linear Algebra Introductory Linear Algebra 2 Elementary linear algebra with geometric applications. Credit not normally granted for more than one of MATH 220 and 230.
Math^Honors Introductory Linear Algebra Honors Introductory Linear Algebra 3 An introduction to linear algebra with an emphasis on conceptual development. Credit not normally granted for more than one of MATH 220 and 230.
Math^Fundamentals of Elementary Mathematics I Fundamentals of Elementary Mathematics I 3 Comprehensive development of number systems emphasizing place-value, integers, rational numbers, and associated algorithms; methods of problem solving.
Math^Fundamentals of Elementary Mathematics II Fundamentals of Elementary Mathematics II 3 Inquiry-based approach to fundamental concepts: measurement, geometrical constructions, similarity, congruence, symmetry, probability, counting principles, measures of central tendency, and distributions. Required preparation: One year of high school geometry.
Math^Calculus III Calculus III 2 Calculus of functions of several variables. Credit not granted for both MATH 273 and 283.
Math^Honors Calculus III Honors Calculus III 2 Multivariable calculus with emphasis on conceptual development and problem solving. Credit not granted for both MATH 273 and 283.
Math^Mathematical Computing Mathematical Computing 3 Examination of some current computer software for solving mathematical problems.
Math^Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning 3 Mathematical arguments and the writing of proofs.
Math^Theory of Numbers Theory of Numbers 3 Divisibility properties of integers; congruences; Diophantine equations; quadratic residues.
Math^Geometry for the Middle School Teacher Geometry for the Middle School Teacher 3 Topics in 2D and 3D geometry including technology-based reasoning and exploration, deductive arguments, transformational and proportional reasoning, and non-Euclidean geometries.
Math^Differential Equations Differential Equations 3 Linear differential equations and systems; series, numerical and qualitative approaches; applications.
Math^Elementary Modern Algebra Elementary Modern Algebra 3 Algebra as a deductive system; number systems; groups, rings, and fields.
Math^Elementary Combinatorics Elementary Combinatorics 3 Introduction to combinatorial theory: counting methods, binomial coefficients and identities, generating functions, occurrence relations, inclusion-exclusion methods.
Math^Methods of Teaching Secondary School Mathematics Methods of Teaching Secondary School Mathematics 3 New curricula and pedagogical techniques for secondary school mathematics.
Math^Introduction to Mathematical Biology Introduction to Mathematical Biology 3 Mathematical biology and development of mathematical modeling for solutions to problems in the life sciences. .
Math^Algebraic Thinking for the Middle School Teacher Algebraic Thinking for the Middle School Teacher 3 Algebraic reasoning, classes of functions, translation among models, analytical rule, tables of data, context and coordinate graphs.
Math^Probability and Statistics Probability and Statistics 3 Probability models, sample spaces, random variables, distributions, moments, comparative experiments, tests, correlation and regression in engineering applications. . Credit not granted for both MATH/STAT 360 and MATH 370. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Principles of Optimization Principles of Optimization 3 Algebra of linear inequalities; duality; graphs, transport networks; linear programming; special algorithms; nonlinear programming; selected applications.
Math^Introductory Statistics for Engineers Introductory Statistics for Engineers 3 Probability axioms, probability models, random variables, expectation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, analysis of variance, control charts. . Credit not granted for both MATH/STAT 360 and MATH/STAT 370.
Math^Vector Analysis Vector Analysis 3 Line integrals, gradient, curl, divergence; Stokes' theorem, potential functions.
Math^Mathematical Snapshots Mathematical Snapshots 1 Character, life work, and historical importance of mathematicians from various eras and branches of mathematics.
Math^Introduction to Analysis I Introduction to Analysis I 3 Properties of sets and sequences of real numbers; limits, continuity, differentiation and integration of functions; metric spaces.
Math^Introduction to Analysis II Introduction to Analysis II 3 Sequences of functions, power series, multivariable calculus, inverse and implicit function theorems, Lagrange multipliers, change of variable in multiple integrations.
Math^Geometry for Secondary Teachers Geometry for Secondary Teachers 3 Geometry as a deductive system of logic; postulational systems; projective and non-Euclidian geometries.
Math^Intermediate Differential Equations Intermediate Differential Equations 3 Linear systems; qualitative theory ; boundary value problems; applications.
Math^Simulation Methods Simulation Methods 3 Model formulation and simulation in business, industry, and government; simulation languages; analysis of simulation output; applications. Credit not granted for both MATH 416 and MATH 516. Required preparation must include probability and statistics and programming experience. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Linear Algebra Linear Algebra 3 Advanced topics in linear algebra including similarity transformations, canonical forms, bilinear forms.
Math^Algebraic Structures Algebraic Structures 3 Properties of algebraic structures and their homomorphisms, semi-groups, groups, rings, unique factorization domains, fields.
Math^Statistical Methods for Engineers and Scientists Statistical Methods for Engineers and Scientists 3 Hypothesis testing; linear, multilinear, and nonlinear regression; analysis of variance for designed experiments; quality control; statistical computing. Credit not normally granted for both STAT 423 and 430. .
Math^Conceptual Aspects of Mathematics Conceptual Aspects of Mathematics 3 Exploration of conceptual models for thinking about mathematical ideas; activities and discussions of mathematical thinking and instruction. .
Math^Intersections of Culture and Mathematics Intersections of Culture and Mathematics 3 Gender/race/ethnicity differences; social consequences; cultural influences on development and learning of mathematics; role of women, people of color in mathematics. Credit not granted for both MATH 431 and 531. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Mathematics for College and Secondary Teachers Mathematics for College and Secondary Teachers 3 Pre-algebra, algebra functions and geometry examined from an advanced perspective, for secondary and lower level college teachers.
Math^Applied Mathematics I Applied Mathematics I 3 Partial differential equations; Fourier series and integrals; Bessel functions; calculus of variations; vector calculus; applications. Credit not granted for both MATH 440 and MATH 540. Required preparation must include differential equations. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Applied Mathematics II Applied Mathematics II 3 Complex variable theory including analytic functions, infinite series, residues, and conformal mapping; Laplace transforms; applications. Credit not granted for both MATH 441 and MATH 541. Required preparation must include differential equations. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Applied Probability Applied Probability 3 Axioms of probability theory; random variables; expectation; generating function; law of large numbers; central limit theorem; Markov chains. .
Math^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis 3 Fundamentals of numerical computation; finding zeroes of functions, approximation and interpolation; numerical integration ; numerical solution of ordinary differential equations. . Required preparation must include differential equations and a programming course. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Graph Theory Graph Theory 3 Graphs and their applications, directed graphs, trees, networks, Eulerian and Hamiltonian paths, matrix representations, construction of algorithms. . Required preparation must include linear algebra. Required preparation must include linear algebra. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Introduction to Statistical Theory Introduction to Statistical Theory 3 Sampling distributions; hypothesis testing and estimation; maximum likelihood; likelihood ratio tests; theory of least squares; nonparametrics. .
Math^Linear Optimization Linear Optimization 3 Linear and integer programming; optimization problems; applications to economic and military strategies; rectangular games; minimax theory.
Math^Optimization in Networks Optimization in Networks 3 Formulation and solution of network optimization problems including shortest path, maximal flow, minimum cost flow, assignment, covering, postman, and salesman. Credit not granted for both MATH 466 and MATH 566. Required preparation must include linear programming. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Mathematical Modeling in the Natural Science Mathematical Modeling in the Natural Science 3 Development of mathematical models for solutions of problems in the physical and life sciences. Credit not granted for both MATH 486 and MATH 586. Required preparation must include differential equations. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Real Analysis Real Analysis 3 Metric spaces, convergence, continuous functions, infinite series, differentiation and integration of functions of one and several variables. Required preparation must include advanced calculus or real analysis.
Math^Introduction to Functional Analysis Introduction to Functional Analysis 3 Normed linear spaces, Banach spaces, introduction to Hilbert space, linear operators. Required preparation: Advanced linear algebra.
Math^Complex Analysis Complex Analysis 3 Analytic functions, complex integration, Taylor and Laurent series, conformal mapping, Riemann surfaces and analytic continuation. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Measure and Integration Measure and Integration 3 Lebesque measure, Lebesque integration, differentiation, L spaces, general measure and integration, Radon-Nikodym Theorem, outer measure and product measures.
Math^Abstract Algebra Abstract Algebra 3 Groups, rings, fields, and homological algebra. Required preparation must include abstract algebra.
Math^Advanced Theory of Numbers Advanced Theory of Numbers 3
Math^Topics in Applied Analysis Topics in Applied Analysis 3 Advanced treatment of applications using techniques from fundamental analysis, convexity, analytic function theory, asymptotics, and differential equations.
Math^Advanced Linear Algebra Advanced Linear Algebra 3 Vector spaces, inner products, unitary equivalence, similarity, Jordan forms, normality, spectral theory, singular value decomposition, norms and inequalities. Required preparation must include advanced linear algebra.
Math^Ordinary Differential Equations Ordinary Differential Equations 3 Existence of solutions; linear systems; qualitative behavior, especially stability; periodic solutions. Required preparation must include a year-long sequence in advanced calculus or real analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Simulation Methods Simulation Methods 3 Model formulation and simulation in business, industry, and government; simulation languages; analysis of simulation output; applications. Credit not granted for both MATH 416 and MATH 516. Required preparation must include probability and statistics and programming experience. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^General Topology General Topology 3 Sets, metric spaces, topological spaces; continuous mappings, compactness, connectedness, local properties, function spaces, and fundamental groups. Required preparation must include a year-long sequence in advanced calculus or real analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Intersections of Culture and Mathematics Intersections of Culture and Mathematics 3 Gender/race/ethnicity differences; social consequences; cultural influences on development and learning of mathematics; role of women, people of color in mathematics. Credit not granted for both MATH 431 and 531. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Advanced Mathematical Thinking Advanced Mathematical Thinking 3 Current theories about how humans learn to think mathematically at the advanced level.
Math^Teaching College Mathematics Teaching College Mathematics 1
Math^Theories of Learning in Mathematics Theories of Learning in Mathematics 3 Math learning theories, including behaviorism, information processing, constructivism, situated cognition, communities of practice; influence on teaching and learning mathematics.
Math^Research Paradigms in Mathematics Education Research Paradigms in Mathematics Education 3 Current research paradigms in math education research; critique research designs used in current mathematics education research article; design and carry out a research project.
Math^Statistical Computing Statistical Computing 3 Generation of random variables, Monte Carlo simulation, bootstrap and jackknife methods, EM algorithm, Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. .
Math^Applied Mathematics I Applied Mathematics I 3 Partial differential equations; Fourier series and integrals; Bessel functions; calculus of variations; vector calculus; applications. Credit not granted for both MATH 440 and MATH 540. Required preparation must include differential equations. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Applied Mathematics II Applied Mathematics II 3 Complex variable theory including analytic functions, infinite series, residues, and conformal mapping; Laplace transforms; applications. Credit not granted for both MATH 441 and MATH 541. Required preparation must include differential equations. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Approximation Theory Approximation Theory 3 Univariate polynomial and rational approximation techniques; approximation using splines and wavelets; selected topics in multivariate approximation; algorithms for approximation. Required preparation must include numerical analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Advanced Matrix Computations Advanced Matrix Computations 3 Advanced topics in the solution of linear systems and eigenvalue problems, including parallel matrix computations. . Required preparation must include numerical analysis. Required preparation must include numerical analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Numerical Analysis of Evolution Equations Numerical Analysis of Evolution Equations 3 Discretization and numerical solution of partial differential equations of evolution; stability, consistency, and convergence; shocks; conservation of forms. Required preparation must include numerical analysis.
Math^Numerical Analysis of Elliptic PDEs Numerical Analysis of Elliptic PDEs 3 Methods of discretizing elliptic partial differential equations and solving the resulting systems of equations; error analysis. Required preparation must include numerical analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Numerical Analysis Numerical Analysis 3 Fundamentals of numerical computation; finding zeroes of functions, approximation and interpolation; numerical integration ; numerical solution of ordinary differential equations. . Required preparation must include differential equations and a programming course. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Graph Theory Graph Theory 3 Graphs and their applications, directed graphs, trees, networks, Eulerian and Hamiltonian paths, matrix representations, construction of algorithms. . Required preparation must include linear algebra. Required preparation must include linear algebra. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Topics in Combinatorics Topics in Combinatorics 3
Math^Partial Differential Equations I Partial Differential Equations I 3 Partial differential equations and other functional equations: general theory, methods of solution, applications. Required preparation must include a year-long sequence in advanced calculus or real analysis. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Partial Differential Equations II Partial Differential Equations II 3 Continuation of MATH 560.
Math^Mathematical Genetics Mathematical Genetics 3 Mathematical approaches to population genetics and genome analysis; theories and statistical analyses of genetic parameters. . Required preparation must include multivariate calculus, genetics, and statistics. Cooperative: Open to UI degree-seeking students.
Math^Nonlinear Optimization I Nonlinear Optimization I 3 Theory and algorithms for unconstrained nonlinear optimization problems, including line search, trust region, conjugate gradient, Newton and quasi-Newton methods. Required preparation must include advanced multivariate calculus, and a programming language.
Math^Nonlinear Optimization II Nonlinear Optimization II 3 Theory and algorithms for constrained linear and nonlinear optimization including interior point, quadratic programming, penalty, barrier and augmented Lagrangian methods.
Math^Optimization in Networks Optimization in Networks 3 Formulation and solution of network optimization problems including shortest path, maximal flow, minimum cost flow, assignment, covering, postman, and salesman. Credit not granted for both MATH 466 and MATH 566. Required preparation must include linear programming. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Integer and Combinatorial Optimization Integer and Combinatorial Optimization 3 Theory and applications of integer and combinatorial optimization including enumerative, cutting plane, basis reduction, relaxation and matching methods. Required preparation must include linear optimization.
Math^Statistical Theory I Statistical Theory I 3 Probability spaces, combinatorics, multidimensional random variables, characteristic function, special distributions, limit theorems, stochastic processes, order statistics. .
Math^Statistical Theory II Statistical Theory II 3 Continuation of STAT 548. Statistical inferences; estimation and testing hypotheses; regression analysis; sequential analysis and nonparametric methods. .
Math^Mathematical Foundations of Continuum Mechanics I Mathematical Foundations of Continuum Mechanics I 3 The basic mathematical theory of continuum mechanics and its relation to perturbation techniques and stability methods. Required preparation must include differential equations and advanced calculus or real analysis.
Math^Mathematical Foundations of Continuum Mechanics II Mathematical Foundations of Continuum Mechanics II 3 Continuation of MATH 570.
Math^Topics in Optimization Topics in Optimization 3
Math^Asset Pricing in Financial Engineering Asset Pricing in Financial Engineering 3 Mathematical methods for various models on valuation of stocks and options, with rigorous mathematical analysis on pricing and hedging techniques.
Math^Quantitative Risk Management Quantitative Risk Management 3 Fundamental concepts in modern risk theory and mathematical methods in quantitative risk management; coherent risk measures, volatility modeling, multivariate dependence analysis using copulas, risk aggregation and allocation, and extreme value theory.
Math^Mathematical Modeling in the Biological and Health Sciences Mathematical Modeling in the Biological and Health Sciences 3 Techniques, theory, and current literature in mathematical modeling in the biological and health sciences, including computational simulation. .
Math^Topics in Applied Mathematics Topics in Applied Mathematics V 1-3
Math^Mathematical Modeling in the Natural Science Mathematical Modeling in the Natural Science 3 Development of mathematical models for solutions of problems in the physical and life sciences. Credit not granted for both MATH 486 and MATH 586. Required preparation must include differential equations. Offered at 400 and 500 level.
Math^Topics in Mathematics Education Topics in Mathematics Education V 1-3
Math^Mathematics Instruction Seminar Mathematics Instruction Seminar 1